{"prompt": "The end of geography ###", "completion":"Some of the most important inventions of the last hundred years:Air conditioning–which made it possible to do productive work in any climateCredit cards–which enabled transactions to take place at a distanceTelevision–which homogenized 150 world cultures into just a fewFederal Express and container ships–which made the transport of physical goods both dependable and insanely cheapThe internet–which moved information from one end of the world to the other as easily as across the roomCell phones–which cut the wiresIf you're still betting on geography, on winning merely because you're local, I hope you have a special case in mind.  END"}
{"prompt": "What do you want? ###", "completion":"The industrialist and the one in power would like you to choose from a list, multiple choice. To interview with the companies that come to the placement office, to select from what's on offer, to ask, 'what do you have?'This is the world of If we don't sell it, you don't want it.But in revolutionary times, when the number of options is exploding, the opportunities go to someone who can describe something that's not in stock, that perhaps has never even been described before.Custom-made does you no good if you don't know what you want.  END"}
{"prompt": "Various updates ###", "completion":"Late in 2014, I invited IOS app developers to submit information for a lightweight list for people seeking professional help. Thanks to Jessica and the generous folks at New York Tech Meetup, it's free and ready for you to use or share. There's a worldwide list and one focused on New Yorkas well. Go make something.The Your Turn Challenge just finished, and it was a phenomenon. More than 4,500 posts came in from nearly a thousand people getting in the habit of shipping daily. Plus tweets. Well done, Winnie.What To Do When It's Your Turn continues to spread, inspiring stories like this one.Somerecent podcasts… about letting ourselves off the hook and special snowflakes.And a reminder: You can get a little ping every time I update this blog here: @thisisSethsblog  END"}
{"prompt": "The truth about admissions ###", "completion":"One in five applicants to Harvard and Stanford are completely qualified to attend—perhaps 20% of those that send in their applications have the smarts, guts and work ethic to thrive at these schools and to become respected alumni.These schools further filter this 20% by admitting only 5% of their applicants, or about one in four of those qualified. And they spend a huge amount of time sorting and ranking and evaluating to get to the final list.They do this even though there is zero correlation between the students they like the most and any measurable outcomes. The person they let in off the waiting list is just as likely to be a superstar in life as they one they chose first.Worth saying again: In admissions, just as in casting or most other forced selection processes, once you get past the selection of people who are good enough, there are few selectors who have a track record of super-sorting successfully. False metrics combined with plenty of posturing leading to lots of drama.It's all a hoax. A fable we're eager to believe, both as the pickers and the picked (and the rejected).What would happen if we spent more time on carefully assembling the pool of 'good enough' and then randomly picking the 5%? And of course, putting in the time to make sure that the assortment of people works well together…[For football fans: Tom Brady and Russell Wilson (late picks who win big games) are as likely outcomes as Peyton Manning (super-selected). Super Bowl quarterbacks, as high-revenue a selection choice as one can make, come as often in late rounds as they do in the first one.][For baseball fans: As we saw in Moneyball, the traditional scouting process was essentially random, and replacing it by actually correlated signals changed everything.]What would happen if rejection letters said, you were good enough, totally good enough to be part of this class, but we randomly chose 25% of the good enough, and alas, you didn't get lucky? Because, in fact, that's what's actually happening.What would happen if casting directors and football scouts didn't agonize about their final choice, but instead spent all that time and effort widening the pool to get the right group to randomly choose from instead? (And in fact, the most talented casting directors are in the business of casting wide nets and signing up the good ones, not in agonizing over false differences appearing real–perhaps that's where the word 'casting' comes from).It's difficult for the picked, for the pickers and for the institutions to admit, but if you don't have proof that picking actually works, then let's announce the randomness and spend our time (and self-esteem) on something worthwhile instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "The best laid plans ###", "completion":"As your plans get more detailed, it's also more and more likely that they won't work exactly as you described them.Certainly, it's worth visualizing the thing you're working to build. When it works, what's it going to be like?Even more important, though, is being able to describe what you're going to do when the plan doesn't work. Because it won't. Not the way you expect, certainly.Things will break, be late, miss the spec. People will let you down, surprise you or change their minds. Sales won't get made, promises will be broken, formulas will change.All part of the plan that includes the fact that plans almost never come true.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your mood vs. your reality ###", "completion":"Who is happy?Are rock stars, billionaires or recently-funded entrepreneurs happier? What about teenagers with clear skin?Either what happens changes our mood… or our mood changes the way we narrate what happens.This goes beyond happiness economics and the understanding that a certain baseline of health and success is needed for many people to be happy.The question worth pondering is: are you seeking out the imperfect to justify your habit of being unhappy? Does something have to happen in the outside world for you to be happy inside?Or, to put it differently,Is there a narrative of your reality that supports your mood?Marketers spend billions of dollars trying to create a connection between what we see in the mirror and our happiness, implying that others are judging us in a way that ought to make us unhappy.And industrialists have built an economic system in which compliance to a boss's instructions is seen as the only way to avoid the unhappiness that comes from being penalized at work. And so fear becomes a dominant paradigm of our profession.Those things are unlikely to change any time soon, but the way we process them can change today. Our narrative, the laundry list we tick off, the things we highlight for ourselves and others… our narrative is completely up to us.The simple shortcut: the way we respond to the things that we can't change can instantly transform our lives. That's interesting, is a thousand times more productive than, that's terrible. Even more powerful is our ability to stop experiencing failure before it even happens, because, of course, it usually doesn't.Happiness, for most of us, is a choice. Reality is not. It seems, though, that choosing to be happy ends up changing the reality that we keep track of.  END"}
{"prompt": "Fear of public speaking ###", "completion":"Very few people are afraid of speaking.It's the public part that's the problem.What makes it public? After all, speaking to a waiter or someone you bump into on the street is hardly private.I think we define public speaking as any group large enough or important enough or fraught enough that we're afraid of it.And that makes the solution straightforward (but not easy). Instead of plunging into these situations under duress, once a year or once a decade, gently stretch your way there.Start with dogs. I'm not kidding. If you don't have one, go to the local animal shelter and take one for a walk. Give your speech to the dog. And then, if you can, to a few dogs.Work your way up to a friend, maybe two friends. And then, once you feel pretty dumb practicing with people you know (this is easy!), hire someone on Craigslist to come to your office and listen to you give your speech.Drip, drip, drip. At every step along the way, there's clearly nothing to fear, because you didn't plunge. It's just one step up from speaking to a schnauzer. And then another step.Every single important thing we do is something we didn't use to be good at, and in fact, might be something we used to fear.This is not easy. It's difficult. But that's okay, because it's possible.  END"}
{"prompt": "Advice or criticism? ###", "completion":"It's quite natural to be defensive in the face of criticism. After all, the critic is often someone with an agenda that's different from yours.But advice, solicited advice from a well-meaning and insightful expert? If you confuse that with criticism, you'll leave a lot of wisdom on the table.Here's a simple way to process advice: Try it on.Instead of explaining to yourself and to your advisor why an idea is wrong, impossible or merely difficult, consider acting out what it would mean. Act as if, talk it through, follow the trail. Turn the advice into a new business plan, or a presentation you might give to the board. Turn the advice into three scenarios, try to make the advice even bolder…When a friend says, you'd look good in a hat, it's counterproductive to imagine that she just told you that you look lousy without a hat, and that you then have to explain why you never wear hats and take offense at the fact that she thinks you always look terrible.Nope. Try on the hat. Just try on the hat.Put on a jacket that goes with the hat. Walk around with the hat on. Take a few pictures of yourself wearing a hat.Then, if you want to, sure, stop wearing hats.Advice is not criticism.  END"}
{"prompt": "Two kinds of hustle ###", "completion":"There's the hustle of always asking, of putting yourself out there, of looking for discounts, shortcuts and a faster way. This is the hustle of it it doesn't hurt to ask, of what you don't know won't hurt you, of the ends justifying the means. This hustler propositions, pitches and works at all times to close a sale, right now.This kind of hustler always wants more for less. This kind of hustler will cut corners if it helps in getting picked.Then there's the hustle that's actually quite difficult and effective. This is the hustle of being more generous than you need to be, of speaking truthfully even if it delays the ultimate goal in the short run, and most of all, the hustle of being prepared and of doing the work.It's a shame that one approach is more common (though appropriately disrespected), while the other sits largely unused.  END"}
{"prompt": "How loud and how angry? ###", "completion":"Professionals are able to get their work done without using emotion to signify urgency.When a surgeon asks the nurse for a scalpel, she doesn't have to raise her voice, stamp her foot or even make a face. She merely asks.When a pilot hits a tough spot, he's not supposed to start yelling at air traffic control. He describes the situation and gets the help he needs.And despite what you may have seen in the movies, successful stock traders don't have to start screaming when there's more money on the line.Compare this to the amateur world of media, of customer service and of marketing. Whoever yells the loudest gets our attention. Twitter users who use cutting language to get someone at a company to feel badly. Emailers who should know better who mark their notes as urgent, even when they're not. Politicians who take umbrage as if umbrage was on sale.It should be clear (compared to say, astronauts and surgeons) that these people aren't angry because so much is at stake. They're angry because it works. Because attention is reserved in those industries for those who decide to demonstrate their emotions by throwing a tantrum.The problem with requiring people to be loud and angry to get things done is that you're now surrounded by people who are loud and angry.What happens if you take a professional approach with the people you work with, rewarding people who properly prioritize their requests (demands) and ignoring those that seek to escalate via vitriol? What happens if you consistently enforce a rule against tantrums?If you go first, by consistently rewarding thoughtful exchanges and refusing to leap merely because it's raining anger, the people you work with will get the message (or move on).A pitfall of throwing tantrums is that sometimes, people throw them back.  END"}
{"prompt": "If you want… ###", "completion":"If you want employees to go job hunting in order to leverage you into giving them a raise to keep them, then by all means, only give them a raise when they go job hunting.If you want vendors to nickel and dime you for the last penny, then by all means, stretch out their payments and use them as a free source of cash.If you want the home seller or the art dealer or the agent to put their goods up for auction to maximize the price you'll have to pay, then definitely punish those that don't have auctions by seeking to pay them as little as possible.If you want internet companies to auction off your attention to the highest bidder, the best strategy is to only use services that don't charge you a fee.If you want to be spammed, buy something from a telemarketer or an email pitch.If you want gotchas, fine print and the hard sell, buy your car from someone who promises you the lowest price and then figures out how to make a profit some other way.If you want customers to throw tantrums in order to get better service, my best advice is to only give a focused, urgent response to customers who throw tantrums.Most of all, if you want customers to hear about you, make something worth talking about. And if you want customers who are loyal, act in a way that deserves loyalty.  END"}
{"prompt": "Here comes ‘uh oh’ ###", "completion":"Everyone has one. That feeling of here we go again, the trap we fall into, the moment of vulnerability.And your 'uh oh' might not be the same as mine. Not a specific fear, but a soft spot, a situational archetype, a moment that brings it all crashing down.The feeling is unavoidable in any organization or culture that seeks to do work that matters and create change. And yet we work overtime to create a day or a year or a career where we'll never have to feel that way.And that's the challenge. All the work we do to avoid the feeling cripples our ability to do our best work. In trying to shield ourselves from a short-term feeling, we build a long-term narrative that pushes us to mediocrity.We can hide the soft spot, or we can lead with it.Working to avoid a feeling merely reminds us of the feeling. And undercuts our work as well.  END"}
{"prompt": "The indirect investment (plural) ###", "completion":"The investor asks, when do I get paid back?The work for hire asks, what's in it for me?The member of the community wonders, what's in it for us? Plural.More than ever, our research, our writing, our art benefits all of us more than it directly benefits just the creator. Feed the commons.  END"}
{"prompt": "‘Connect to’ vs. ‘Connect’ ###", "completion":"An organization might seek to 'connect to' its customers or constituents. Connection is a form of permission, the ability to deliver value to the people who request it. Vertical connection creates the ability to communicate and delivers a barrier to entry. Most online stores are connected to their customers. Most freelancers seek to connect to their clients. Most teachers work to connect to their students.That's different, though, than 'connect'. When you connect your customers or your audience or your students, you're the matchmaker, building horizontal relationships, person to person. This is what makes a tribe. People caring about people. Side by side, multiplying exponentially.Organizations are afraid of connecting. They are afraid of losing control, of handing over power, of walking into a territory where they don't always get to decide what's going to happen next. When your customers like each other more than they like you, things can become challenging.Of course, connecting is where the real emotions and change and impact happen.  END"}
{"prompt": "Shoes that don’t fit (and free salt) ###", "completion":"A beautiful pair of shoes, but one size too small, on sale and everything…. Not worth buying, not for you, not at any price. Because shoes that don't fit aren't a bargain.And at a restaurant, you may have noticed that there's no extra charge for salt. You can have as much salt as you want on your food, for free. (Of course, it's not really free, it's part of the cost of the meal, so we paid for it, so we might as well get our money's worth, might as well use a lot.) Of course, that's silly, because regardless of how much we were billed for the salt, no matter how unlimited our access to it is, using more is merely going to ruin our meal. Too much salt isn't a bargain.Buffets (like life, organizations, projects, art…) aren't actually, all you can eat. They're, all you care to eat. Which is something else entirely. Just because you can have it doesn't mean you want it. Just because we paid for it doesn't mean we should use all of it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Leap First is now available ###", "completion":"An original audio production* via Sounds True, with 100% of my royalties going to the Acumen Fund.Find it right here: Leap First.I just got this great note from Jason Connell. I hope the recording resonates with you as much as it did with him:Wanted to let you know that I listened to Leap First over the past two days and love it. I am amazed by how you blended business, personal development, and spirituality into one fluid recording.It did an amazing job of inspiring confidence, vision, and excitement about tackling… not just projects, but life and I plan to listen to it again soon.Thank you for so generously sharing your insight. You could have charged far, far more for this.Thanks to everyone who has listened, reviewed it and recommended it. I appreciate your support.(*Producing this audio inspired my new book, Your Turn).  END"}
{"prompt": "Ruckusmaker day ###", "completion":"Celebrated all over the world, for the first time, tomorrow is annual Ruckusmaker Day.Tomorrow would have been Steve Jobs' 60th birthday. Steve's contribution wasn't invention. Technology breakthroughs didn't come out of his basement the way they did from Land or Tesla. Instead, his contribution was to have a point of view. To see something and say 'yes' or 'no'. To not only have a point of view, but to change it when the times demanded.Most of all, to express that point of view, to act on it, to live with it.There's a lot to admire about the common-sense advice, If you don't have anything worth saying, don't say anything.On the other hand, one reason we often find ourselves with nothing much to say is that we've already decided that it's safer and easier to say nothing.If you've fallen into that trap, then committing to having a point of view and scheduling a time and place to say something is almost certainly going to improve your thinking, your attitude and your trajectory.A daily blog is one way to achieve this. Not spouting an opinion or retweeting the click of the day. Instead, outlining what you believe and explaining why.Commit to articulating your point of view on one relevant issue, one news story, one personnel issue. Every day. Online or off, doesn't matter. Share your taste and your perspective with someone who needs to hear it.Speak up. Not just tomorrow, but every day.A worthwhile habit.  END"}
{"prompt": "The trolls inside ###", "completion":"The worst troll is in your head.Internet trolls are the commenters begging for a fight, the anonymous critics eager to tear you down, the hateful packs of roving evil dwarves, out for amusement.But the one in your head, that voice of insecurity and self-criticism, that's the one you need to be the most vigilant about.Do not feed the troll.Do not reason with the troll.Do not argue with the troll.Most of all, don't litigate. Don't make your case, call your witnesses, prove you are right. Because the troll knows how to sway a jury even better than you do.Get off the troll train. Turn your back, walk away, ship the work.  END"}
{"prompt": "Mass production and mass media ###", "completion":"We invented televisions so marketers would have a way to run TV ads. We have magazines so marketers can run magazine ads.Make no mistake: mass media exists because it permits mass marketers to do their job.Mass production, the ability to make things cheaply, in volume, demanded that we invent mass marketing–it was the only way to sell what was being made in the quantity it was produced.The internet, though, was not invented so marketers could run internet ads.And, at the same time, mass production is being replaced by micro production, by the short run, by customization, by the long tail.Just in time, mass media is going away too.Mass marketers don't like this and they often don't even see it. They're struggling to turn Snapchat and Twitter and other sites into substitutes for TV, but it's not working, because it's an astonishing waste of attention.The Ed Sullivan Show existed to sell Jello to everyone. Today, there's no everyone, and certainly no media channel that can sell everyone, cheap, to the folks who market Jello.This is an ongoing challenge for mass marketers, and the opportunity of a generation for everyone else.For fifty years, TV and TV-thinking was the shortcut. Make average stuff for average people (by definition = mass) and promote to every stranger within reach. It worked.But mass is fading, fading faster than our desire to be mass marketers is fading. The shortcut doesn't work every time now, and the expectation that success is the same as popularity is still with us.Fifty years ago, producers and marketers got smart. They saw the miracle of mass marketing and they adopted it as their own. They amped up mass production and bet on the masses.The smart creators today are seeing the shift and doing precisely the opposite:Produce for a micro market.Market to a micro market.When someone wants to know how big you can make (your audience, your market share, your volume), it might be worth pointing out that it's better to be important, to be in sync, to be the one that's hard to be replaced. And the only way to be important is to be relevant, focused and specific.  END"}
{"prompt": "Pitchers and hitters ###", "completion":"Hitters don't have much of an agenda other than, swing at the good balls. No one blames the hitters when the pitcher has a hot hand and throws a no hitter.Pitchers, on the other hand, decide what's going to happen next. Pitchers get to set the pace, outline the strategy, initiate instead of react.When your job is in reaction mode, you're allowing the outside world to decide what happens next. You are freed from the hard work of setting an agenda, but in exchange, you dance when the market says dance. I did the best I could with what was thrown at me…Finding the guts to move up the ladder is hard. When you decide to set the agenda and when you take control over your time and your effort, the responsibility for what happens next belongs to you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Different kinds of magic ###", "completion":"A stunning video about what school can mean.A beautiful book about art and meaning.A different kind of management tome.Rethinking your career. Or this way.And worth thinking hard about: two brilliant social histories by David Graeber. Debt and Bureaucracy.  END"}
{"prompt": "Direct marketing (and the other kind) ###", "completion":"Direct marketing is outbound, measured and designed to pay for itself.So, the catalog you get in the mail, or the Fuller Brush man. The idea was to buy stamps (or some other form of contacting people) and make enough money on average to buy more stamps.Before the internet, direct marketing was on a steady growth path. The science of testing and improving offers and the industrialization of systems that lowered costs meant that more and more organizations were using direct marketing to solicit donations, get votes and sell products and services.One of the key elements that allows direct marketing to grow so fast is that once you know how much an action is worth (a returned phone call, a door opened, an address added) you can buy it from anyone, in any quantity. Because it pays for itself. The media works on commission, for you.The internet, of course, is fueled by direct marketing thinking. What's a click worth? How much will you bid to have your ad on top? How many visits does this buy create? What's the funnel on our site, and how do we make it more efficient? What's the allowable for a download?So Amazon grew largely on the basis of its affiliate program (anyone can join, you only get paid when someone clicks and buys–classic direct marketing thinking). And so Google grew without a salesforce, because the direct marketer doesn't wait for someone to show up and sell–instead, the direct marketer eagerly seeks out anything that generates a click for less.This is the opposite of the other kind, which doesn't really have a name. Brand marketing, or mass marketing, or indirect marketing. The kind the guys at Mad Men do. The full-page ads in magazines, just about all the ads on TV, sponsoring a conference…[For the purposes of this post, I'm talking about the duality of marketing in the traditional sense. My take for the last 15 years is that marketing is merely storytelling and promise making/keeping, and in fact, everything the organization does is at some level, marketing.]If you're hoping to build something on the web, then, you're almost certainly required to think like a direct marketer.That means that if you're searching for traffic or action or sales or word of mouth, you will be offered a hundred ways to measure what happens. And if you improve what you're measuring, the amount you have to spend on each action goes up, and if you earn enough from each action, direct marketing becomes a profit center, not a cost.That means if you're required to sell ads or sponsorships, the easiest sales to make, and the most likely sales you'll make, will be to a direct marketer, and the offer is probably similar to Amazon's original affiliate offer: We'll pay you when it works. We'll pay for a click or we'll track how many people type in a discount code, or…Sometimes eager direct marketers will pay upfront for an ad, but they always measure, and they don't keep running ads that don't measure up. That's at the core of direct marketing.There are costs to this shift, worth thinking about:1. While it's tempting to build an organization with direct marketing techniques, just about all the brands that matter to our culture aren't built this way. The subtle and powerful stories behind Starbucks and Apple and Harper Lee don't lend themselves to direct response ads.If you're trying to build that kind of brand, it's essential that you reject direct-marketing tactics as a shortcut. They will drive you to make decisions that keep you from building the sort of promise you seek to build, and they'll end up not paying for themselves either.Whether you're a solo entrepreneur or a giant corporation, this is a trap the web sets for you. What you need to sacrifice to make the numbers work might be the very brand you seek to build.2. Open-system direct marketing (where just about anyone can carry a link or run a banner) inevitably destroys the media that gets hooked on them. If your podcast becomes dependent on getting people to visit a sponsor's site and type in the discount code, you can bet that there will be ever-increasing internal pressure to mention the code louder and more often. Not by the advertiser. He doesn't care, he'll just move on. By your partners and your boss. And so we get popups and popunders and sneaky data tracking. Because people are measuring.[There is an exception to this, which proves the rule: The Yellow Pages, where responding to the ads is the only function of the medium. Craigslist and eBay understand this.]In many ways, direct marketing on the web is a self-limiting process, because the more that media companies embrace it, the worse it works. This is precisely the opposite of what happened for a generation to branded ads in Vogue and other magazines. Work too hard at getting clicks on the ads you sold, your audience leaves.Lester Wunderman, Lillian Vernon and LL Bean built direct marketing businesses at their kitchen table, buying stamps and mailing lists and learning the hard way how to think like direct marketers. The web has turned all of us, if we want to be, into direct marketers. Go in with your eyes open, and do it well, and for the right reasons.  END"}
{"prompt": "The panic tax ###", "completion":"Systems under severe stress degrade.While individuals might do extraordinary work while pumped with adrenalin (lifting a car, running through a burning building), panic can decrease the efficacy of a system by 30% or more–often completely destroying it.Compare the typical throughput of a highway during rush hour (when it's filled with seasoned commuters) to a similar road when people are fleeing a natural disaster…. in the first case, the cars naturally keep a safe distance, drivers are sufficiently alert, everyone gets home. In the other, there's a complete standstill.Or consider how the TSA functions in an environment of stress (like the Orlando airport). A combination of leisure travelers, poor management and bad architecture means that (at least every time I've been there), there's a lot of yelling, invaded space and wasted time. Not to mention frayed nerves among Disney-overdosed parents in need of anything but more hassle.Here are some thoughts for someone who might want to write a book about the panic tax (or someone who runs a system that shouldn't be degraded):1. The cost of ameliorating panic in your system is always less than the cost of the lost productivity when panic hits. In other words, all the other steps are worth it.2. Slack is the enemy of panic. When in doubt, add resources, or even simpler, remove requirements. That's what the gated entry points on crowded freeways do… the entire road goes faster when fewer cars are on it, meaning that gating cars at the entrance is actually far faster than letting them on over the course of the commute.3. Media voices, politicians and others that create panic for a living need to own responsibility for the way their actions dramatically magnify the cost we all pay.4. The answer to, should we panic, is always no. Always. Panic is expensive, panic compounds and panic doesn't solve the problem.5. Install panic dampers at every opportunity. TSA officers should be trained to talk more softly and slowly when their systems approach capacity. Sound deadening devices should be tuned to be most effective when volume increases. The police should be trained to seek compliance second, after they are able to diffuse panic.6. They call them panic attacks for a reason. After-action review, an attack-analysis session, ought to be held whenever a system freezes under panic. Find the instigator, the first step, not the last one, and invest in what it takes to ameliorate it next time.Mostly: Panic averted is far cheaper than panic survived.  END"}
{"prompt": "Self talk ###", "completion":"There's no more important criticism than self criticism.There's no amount of external validation that can undo the constant drone of internal criticism.And negative self talk is hungry for external corroboration. One little voice in the ether that agrees with your internal critic is enough to put you in a tailspin.The remedy for negative self talk, then, is not the search for unanimous praise from the outside world. It's a hopeless journey, and one that destroys the work, because you will water it down in fear of that outside critic that amplifies your internal one.The remedy is accurate and positive self talk. Endless amounts of it.Not delusional affirmations or silly metaphysical pronouncements about the universe. No, merely the reassertion of obvious truths, a mantra that drives away the nonsense the lizard brain is selling as truth.You cannot reason with negative self talk or somehow persuade it that the world disagrees. All you can do is surround it with positive self talk, drown it out and overwhelm it with concrete building blocks of great work, the combination of expectation, obligation and possibility.When in doubt, tell yourself the truth.  END"}
{"prompt": "‘Pick yourself’ and taking responsibility ###", "completion":"Perhaps you've decided that the idea ofPick Yourselfis sort of a new-age mantra, a promise that everyone is entitled to what they want, right now.What a shortcut it seems to be. A false promise, holding out that illusion that we can get what we want if we just raise our hand. Pick yourself, you win…It's precisely the opposite.If you want to be responsible for making music, make music. If you want to be responsible for writing, speaking, making change happen, go do that. Waiting to get picked is a form of hiding, not realism.No, it’s not always possible for everyone to succeed by being the most popular, the most clicked on, the most liked. In fact, it will never happen. No one is promising that, I hope. What pick yourself means is that it’s never been easier to decide to be responsible for your own work, for your own agenda, for the change you make in the world. To have a chance to matter. Not to be finished right now, but starting now.Pick yourself means we should stop waiting and whining and stalling.The outcome is still in doubt, but it’s clear that waiting just doesn’t pay.[Podcast discussions on this topic: Unmistakable Creative, Sounds Like a Movement,The Lede, Read to Lead]  END"}
{"prompt": "Hypergrowth ###", "completion":"Fast growth comes from overwhelming the smallest possible audience with a product or service that so delights that they insist that their friends and colleagues use it. And hypergrowth is a version of the same thing, except those friends and colleagues quickly become even bigger fans, and tell even more people.Often, we get sidetracked when we forget about smallest possible. If you make the audience you're initially serving too big, you will dilute the very thing you set out to make, avoid critical mass, and compromise the magic of what you're building. You'll make average stuff for average people instead of something powerful for the few.By smallest possible I don't mean, too small. I mean the smallest number that eventually leads to the kernel of conversation that enables you to grow.[Minimum Viable Audience, a great term, originally coined by Brian Clark.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Active listening ###", "completion":"The kind of listening we're trained to do in school and at work is passive listening. Sit still. Get through it. Figure out what's going to be on the test and ignore the rest. Your eyes can glaze over, but don't let it show. Try not to nod off. People are talking, and they'd like the illusion of listening to accompany that. Don't interrupt.Passive listening is letting the other person talk.Active listening, on the other hand, requires that you interrupt when you need a clarification, and it requires that you ask a truly difficult question when the speaker is finished.If it's worth listening to, it's worth questioning until you understand it.  END"}
{"prompt": "What is customer service for? ###", "completion":"Customer service is difficult, expensive and unpredictable. But it's a mistake to assume that any particular example is automatically either good or bad. A company might spend almost nothing on customer service but still succeed in reaching its goals.Customer service succeeds when it accomplishes what the organization sets out to accomplish. Google doesn't have a phone number, doesn't want to engage with most users. McDonald's doesn't give you a linen napkin. Fedex used to answer the phone on one ring, now it takes 81 seconds for them to answer a call. None of these things are necessarily bad, they're merely examples of alignment (or non-alignment).Organizations don't accidentally run ads, don't mistakenly double (or halve) the amount of cereal they put in the box. They shouldn't deliver customer service that doesn't match their goals either.Here are some uses of customer service:To create a significant competitive advantage by engaging with customers in a way that others can't or won't. This is what the over-the-top customer service approach of Zappos did. They went from being a commonplace (you can buy shoes from anyone, we're anyone) to a customer delight company that happens to sell shoes. Rackspace does the same thing with technical support.To streamline the delivery of inexpensive goods produced in an industrial way: This is the model of most fast food places. Deal with the exceptions quickly and well, and keep the line moving. Part of this mindset is to not make it easy for people to complain, and to treat every complaint in just about the same way. When you get a bag of rancid nuts from Planters, sure, you can visit the website, click a bunch of times, fill in a form and let them know, but they don't use it as an opportunity to earn your loyalty.Here, take four coupons, each good for a dollar off one purchase, thanks, we're done.To lower expectations and satisfy customers by giving them exactly what you promised, which is not much: This is the model of automated customer service at most big web companies. They'll do just about anything to avoid an interaction with a human, and they're clear about this, meaning that they should only end up with customers who are okay with this.To raise expectations and delight customers by giving them way more than they hoped for, which was a lot:This is a truly difficult promise to maintain (Apple did it with the Genius bar, but they rarely surprise there any more). The secret is to find a focus, a budget and a scale where you can actually deploy talented individuals to keep this promise.To dance with customers in an act of co-creation: This is part of 37Signals' secret. From their book to their blog to their clearly stated point of view about platforms and the way they do business, they invite customers to debug with them in an ongoing dialogue about finding a platonic ideal of utility software. They don't promise perfect, they promise engagement. Over-inform. Speak with respect. Be clear about the invitation. This is a very special sort of customer service, and companies often think they're doing this but end up cutting corners and are merely plodding along, disappointing those that would have preferred to engage instead.To diminish negative word of mouth: Many large organizations resort to this, the last step in a sad journey. As soon as a wheel gets squeaky, they grease it. But that's all they do unless pressed. The problem is that many of your unhappy customers are too busy to get squeaky, they merely go elsewhere, and the ones who you finally do try to help are so pissed off it's too late.To build extraordinary trust: This is the initiative taken by an institution to do far more than is expected, at a human level, to earn the privilege of serving again. This is the banker who visits you in the hospital, merely because she heard from another customer that you were ill.To treat different people differently: One way to reward your best customers is to treat the best of them substantially better than others–the word will spread, others will want to join this group, and those in it will be hesitant to switch to a competitor. But if you make that promise, you need to double down on it substantially, continually improving how you treat your favorites.To race with competitors to lower customer service costs just a bit more than they will: This is the current progression we see among industrial titans who see customer service as a cost, not a profit center. When you measure this, you can't help to want to drive the cost down, and you will do it just a bit faster than your competitors, because to do it too fast is to risk condemnation. Alas, in just about every industry that the internet has sucked the profits out of, we see this cost-cutting race to the bottom. It's not going to end well.Because you can: This is awfully rare among public companies, but there are many organizations that treat people as they'd like to be treated. Not to grow market share, but because it's the right thing to do.So it's clear that good customers with urgent problems left on hold by Fedex is a mismatch between what they built customer service for and what they're doing with it. And that a busy startup that doesn't invest as much time as they could in co-creation communication is not serving the goals of the beta fully. On the other hand, the novelist who doesn't invest time in answering reader mail is probably doing good customer service, since reserving her best efforts to write another great novel is precisely the promise she has made.Every single person who makes budget decisions, staffing decisions and customer service decisions must to be clear about which strategy you picked, needs to be able to state, we're doing this because it's congruent with what we say customer service is for.Obviously, you can mix and match among these options, and find new ones. What we must not do, though, is plan to do one thing but then try to save time or money and do something else, hoping for the results that come from the original plan without actually doing it.Customer service, like everything an effective organization does, changes people. Announce the change you seek, then invest appropriately, in a system that is likely to actually produce the outcomes you just said you wanted.Make promises and keep them.  END"}
{"prompt": "Of course it’s difficult… ###", "completion":"Students choose to attend expensive colleges but don't major in engineering because the courses are killer.Doing more than the customary amount of customer service is expensive, time-consuming and hard to sustain.Raising money for short-term urgent projects is easier than finding support for the long, difficult work of changing the culture and the infrastructure.Finding a new path up the mountain is far more difficult than hiring a sherpa and following the tried and true path.Of course it is. That's precisely why it's scarce and valuable.The word economy comes from the Greek and the French, and is based on the concept of scarcity. The only things that are scarce in the world of connection and services and the net are the things that are difficult, and the only things that are valuable are the things that are scarce. When we intentionally seek out the difficult tasks, we're much more likely to actually create value.  END"}
{"prompt": "Things we don’t see that much any more ###", "completion":"Wine coolers, Julia Roberts movies, fondue, Geocities pages, baby on board signs, a line at the Krispy Kreme…Ubiquitous doesn't mean forever, and popular isn't permanent. Someone is going to fade, and someone is going to be next to take their place.  END"}
{"prompt": "The naked corn paradox ###", "completion":"Sometimes, the thing that's done to market something makes it worse.And so, the corn at the local supermarket is already husked, because it looks better, sells better but tastes worse.And stereo speakers are designed with extra bass, so they'll demo better, sell better but sound worse.The market isn't always 'right', if right means that it knows how to get what it wants in the long run. Too often, we are confused, or misled, or part of a herd headed in the wrong direction.It's almost impossible to bring the mass market to its senses, to insist that you know better. What you can do, though, is find discerning and alert individuals who will take the time to understand. And then, if you're good and patient and lucky, they'll tell the others.Which is why, over the last thirty years, farmers markets and other entities have slowly grown in influence. Because happy customers tell stories about remarkable products and services.When you see the corn paradox, label it and act accordingly. Tell stories for the few, help them to spread.PS Shawn Coyne's book about editing your stories is just out. A keeper.  END"}
{"prompt": "I didn’t see it because I wasn’t looking ###", "completion":"My friend Alan came over to dinner the other night. Unbeknownst to me, he had a few plastic scorpions in his pocket (a reminder of a recent adventure).I saw a plastic scorpion on the bowl of nuts, but I didn't see it, I just moved it aside and went ahead preparing dinner. A few minutes later, I saw a second plastic scorpion on the counter, but again, I didn't actually see it, didn't pause or consider it, I just moved on. It took until the third plastic scorpion before I said, huh.This is one reason we feel the need to yell 'surprise' at a surprise party. Because we all have blinders on.The people who are the very best at noticing what's happening notice it because they're looking.You can see a lot just by looking.  END"}
{"prompt": "Good design (and serial numbers) ###", "completion":"Bosch puts the serial number for its dishwashers on the side of the door, not the top. Which means that 50% of the time, if the device is mounted in a corner, it's impossible to see the serial number.Most companies use 0 and o and O in their serial numbers, as well as 1 and I. If they used nothing but letters, words in fact, there'd be no confusion. Make a list of 1000 short words, use each word twice and you have a million numbers. FISHY-LASSO, for example. Easy to remember, hard to screw up.And there might be a reason to use really small type, but it's hard for me to understand why.Of course, serial numbers are merely a symptom. I'm not particularly ranting about them. Design is about function. Everything we do has a job, and if it's designed properly, the job will get done well.When we think about what might go wrong, we're more likely to design something that goes right.[PS just found out about3 words]  END"}
{"prompt": "Product adoption: different problems for different folks ###", "completion":"The product adoption cycle is one of the most essential things to understand when you seek to launch a product or service, or make any sort of cultural change. Different people sign up for new ideas at different rates. Some farmers, for example, are eager to try a new type of seed or irrigation device. Some farmers will wait years, or a generation, to try the same thing. Some people start the video going viral, some are the very last to see it.What distinguishes these people? It's worth noting that someone who might be an innovator at work might choose to be a laggard at home.It turns out that the key is in the way they present themselves with problems. I have a problem: I don't have the new cell phone, is a concern of the Innovator. On the other hand, the Early Majority says, I have a problem, all my friends have a new cell phone and I don't.Note that few say, The device I have doesn't have the right features. That's because features don't create problems that we can solve by embracing a new idea or technology. Our stories do. A missing feature might provide some of the narrative of our internal story, but most of all, the story is built around the behavior of those around us.If you want a population to adopt your innovation, you have to create a problem that is solved by adoption. And that problem is almost always related to, what about the others?  END"}
{"prompt": "To overcome an irrational fear… ###", "completion":"replace it with a habit.If you're afraid to write, write a little, every day. Start with an anonymous blog, start with a sentence. Every day, drip, drip, drip, a habit.If you're afraid to speak up, speak up a little, every day. Not to the board of directors, but to someone. A little bit, every day.Habits are more powerful than fears.  END"}
{"prompt": "Opportunity cost ###", "completion":"Doing nothing is expensive.Opportunity cost is the value of the lost opportunity, the benefit of the thing you could have done instead of what you're doing now.How much does it cost to go to Stanford Business School? Well, there's the out of pocket costs, things like tuition and housing, but there's also the cost of the job you gave up to go.Opportunity cost is at its most expensive when we miss opportunities. It's not merely the cost of making a choice, it's the real penalty of standing by as something important is happening without us.The opportunity cost of not looking for a new job, of not building a new plant, of not listening to a new idea—these are significant, and we overlook them all the time.It's almost impossible to live a good life if you're measuring the opportunity cost of everything you do. FOMO (fear of missing out) is a crippling syndrome, because you're always looking over someone's shoulder to see if someone (or something) better is across the room.But even though FOMO is a joy killer, ignoring the cost of missing out is still a problem.  END"}
{"prompt": "Terroir ###", "completion":"You can taste it.Heinz ketchup has no terroir. It always tastes like everywhere and nowhere and the same. A Dijon mustard from a small producer in France, though, you can taste where it came from. Foodies seek out this distinction in handcraftedchocolate or wine or just about anything where the land and environment are thought to matter.But we can extend the idea to you, to your work, to the thing you're building.Visit the City Bakery in New York. Every square inch contains the DNA of the whole place. The planking of the floor. The sound as you sit on the balcony. The parade of people coming in and out. The staff.It's not like anyplace else. It's not like everyplace else. It's like the City Bakery.Consistent doesn't mean, like everybody else. Consistent in this case means, like yourself. If we took just one drop of your work and your reputation and the trail you leave behind, could we reconstruct the rest of it?The pressure on each of us to fit in, to industrialize, to be more like Heinz–it's huge. But to do so is to lose the essence of what we make.  END"}
{"prompt": "Reckless abandon (is neither) ###", "completion":"It's not reckless, because when we leap, when we dive in, when we begin, only begin, we bring our true nature to the project, we make it personal and urgent.And it's not abandon, not in the sense that we've abandoned our senses or our responsibility. In fact, abandoning the fear of fear that is holding us back is the single best way not to abandon the work, the pure execution of the work.Later, there's time to backpedal and water down. But right now, reckless please.  END"}
{"prompt": "Thanks ###", "completion":"In just two days, my new course for freelancers is the fastest-growing one of its kind in Udemy's history.I'm thrilled to see that so many of my readers are eager to dig in and make a difference.The course has already transformed the work of thousands of people.The half-price discount expires soon, and this will be my last post about it. I hope it resonates with you, and thanks again for leaping.  END"}
{"prompt": "People are real, but the crowd disappoints ###", "completion":"Every crowd, sooner or later, will let you down.The crowd contains a shoplifter, or a heckler, or an anonymous boor who leaves a snarky comment.The crowd loses interest, the crowd denigrates the work, the crowd isn't serious.Worst of all, sometimes the crowd turns into a mob, out of control and bloodthirsty.But people, people are real.People will look you in the eye.People will keep their promises. People can grow, can change, can be generous.When in doubt, ignore the crowd (and forgive them). When possible, look for people instead.Scale is overrated, again and again.  END"}
{"prompt": "Not all who are lost, wander ###", "completion":"Going faster doesn't make you less lost.It's okay to ask for directions.(Knowing you're lost is half the battle.)  END"}
{"prompt": "Pain and money and b2b selling ###", "completion":"When you sell to someone at a business, it's worth remembering that the pain their problem is causing belongs to them, while the money they have to spend, doesn't.Any time you can cure their pain in exchange for their boss's (or the shareholder's) money, that's a compelling offer.The challenge is actually being able to cure the pain, because too often, when an organization moves forward, the fear of failure and the pain of change is worse than the problem they started with. Asserting it can be done is insufficient.  END"}
{"prompt": "Do-able ###", "completion":"Lean entrepreneurs can talk about the minimum viable product, but far more important is the maximum do-able project.Given the resources you have (your assets, your time, your patience), what's the biggest thing it's quite likely you can pull off?Our culture is organized around the people who get on base, who reliably keep their promises, who deliver. Quite likely, is a comforting story indeed. [HT to Bernadette.]Domino's could have offered five-minute pizza delivery, and sometimes, without a doubt, they could have pulled that off. But promising something they could do virtually every time earned them a spot on the speed dial of millions of phones.Aiming too high is just as fearful a tactic as aiming too low. Before you promise to change the world, it makes sense to do the hard work of changing your neighborhood.Do what you say, then do it again, even better.We need your dreams, but we also need your deeds.  END"}
{"prompt": "Taking names ###", "completion":"Should you keep track of the people who say you're going to fail, who actively work against you, who troll your best work? Should you try to win over the haters and those that so cruelly root against you?I wonder if it makes more sense to spend as much (or even more) time with the fans and supporters and sneezers who work so hard to help you succeed.It seems to me that this is more productive, more fun and likely to make more change happen…Yes, take names. Of the good guys.  END"}
{"prompt": "What is a sale for? (48 hours) ###", "completion":"When things go on sale, (while supplies last, our annual savings event, end-of-season markdowns) it is a combination of scarcity and abundance.Abundance because there's more here for the person who takes action. More variety, more for your money.And scarcity, because sales never last forever.We can get a lot of mileage out of telling ourselves and our friends that we bought it on sale.Sales are effective for two kinds of mindsets:The person who is wired to enjoy the sport of the sale. You'll find people clipping grocery coupons who charge an hourly rate far higher than the money they're saving on coupons. They're not doing it for the money, necessarily, they're doing it because of how it makes them feel (like an active participant, like someone ahead of the pack). This person is attracted to the potential abundance of buying on sale.And the person who was interested but had no real reason to take action. If what's on offer today is going to be on offer tomorrow, better to just wait. The scarcity that a sale creates means that the feeling of missing it, of being left out, is compelling enough that it's better to take action now than it is to wait.It doesn't matter what the sale is ostensibly for. The sale is a signal, a chance to sit up and take notice and possibly take action.[And today, in honor of the last day of the production of the Model T, as well as Harlan Ellison's birthday, two sales, each for just 48 hours, each limited to just 1,000 orders…]40% off my freelance course via Udemy. Use code HarlanEllison.40% off the party pack of my latest book, What To Do When It's Your Turn, also use code HarlanEllison. The three-pack actually includes 5 books, meaning they are less than $9 a copy.  END"}
{"prompt": "Degrees of freedom ###", "completion":"Does a college degree confer the ability to choose, to open the door to find a way to matter?Three years ago I gave this TEDx talk about the future of education.And the students who graduated from college this month each have an average of $35,000 in debt. For many people, this debt is debilitating. Instead of opening doors, it slams them shut.Talented teachers and passionate students are the victims of an industrialized educational system, one that cares a great deal about standardized tests and famous brand-name institutions.It's time to ask why. And to keep asking why until we figure out what school is actually for.The education system continues to head in one direction, but each day, more of those it proclaims it seeks to serve (students, parents, taxpayers) are realizing that the system ought to be doing something quite different. And differently.  END"}
{"prompt": "The do over ###", "completion":"Our culture places a huge premium on choosing the right answer, as if we're all on some sort of game show.Much less credit is given to people brave enough to realize that they've made a mistake who go ahead and choose a new direction, a new strategy or a new set of tactics.When we find ourselves in a deep hole, it's rarely because we encountered a single terrible glitch. Usually, it's the result of compounding, of doubling down on a worldview or a stand or a habit that just doesn't pay.Given a choice between changing tactics based on data and staying on the road in the wrong direction, I think the best path is pretty clear. The hard part is figuring out what to tell the others. Do overs are possible, but they take guts.  END"}
{"prompt": "We are all social entrepreneurs ###", "completion":"It's tempting to reserve the new term 'social entrepreneurs' for that rare breed that builds a significant company organized around the idea of changing the culture for the better.The problem with this term is that it lets everyone else off the hook. The prefix social implies that regular entrepreneurs have nothing to worry about, and that the goal of every un-prefixed organization and project (the 'regular kind') is to only make as much money as possible, as fast as possible.But that's not how the world works.Every project causes change to happen, and the change we make is social. The jobs we take on, the things we make, the side effects we cause—they're not side effects, they're merely effects. When we make change, we're responsible for the change we choose to make.All of us, whichever job or project we choose to take on, do something to change the culture. That social impact, positive or negative is our choice.It turns out that all of us are social entrepreneurs. It's just that some people are choosing to make a bigger (and better) impact than others.It's a spectrum, not a label.  END"}
{"prompt": "When you do work that matters, the crowd will call you a fool ###", "completion":"If you do something remarkable, something new and something important, not everyone will understand it (at first). Your work is for someone, not everyone.Unless you'resurrounded only by someones, you will almost certainly encounter everyone. And when you do, they will jeer.That's how you'll know you might be onto something.  END"}
{"prompt": "But do you want to get better? ###", "completion":"It seems like a stupid question. Of course we want our organization, our work and our health to improve.But often, we don't.Better means change and change means risk and risk means fear.So the organization is filled with people who have been punished when they try to make things better, because the boss is afraid.And so the patient gets the prescription but doesn't actually take all the meds.And the bureaucrat feigns helplessness because it's easier to shrug than it is to care.There are countless ways to listen, to engage with users, to learn and to improve, but before you or your organization waste time on any of them, first the question must be answered, do we want to get better?Really? We can tell.  END"}
{"prompt": "What happens when things go wrong? ###", "completion":"Service resilience is too often overlooked. Most organizations don't even have a name for it, don't measure it, don't plan for it.I totally understand our focus on putting on a perfect show, on delighting people, on shipping an experience that's wonderful.But how do you and your organization respond/react when something doesn't go right?Because that's when everyone is paying attention.  END"}
{"prompt": "The rejectionists ###", "completion":"We can choose to define ourselves (our smarts, our brand, our character) on who rejects us.Or we can choose to focus on those that care enough to think we matter.Carrying around a list of everyone who thinks you're not good enough is exhausting.  END"}
{"prompt": "Buzzer management ###", "completion":"I started the quiz team at my high school. Alas, I didn't do so well at the tryouts, so I ended up as the coach, but we still made it to the finals.It took me thirty years to figure out the secret of getting in ahead of the others who also knew the answer (because the right answer is no good if someone else gets the buzz):You need to press the buzzer before you know the answer.As soon as you realize that you probably will be able to identify the answer by the time you're asked, buzz. Between the time you buzz and the time you're supposed to speak, the answer will come to you. And if it doesn't, the penalty for being wrong is small compared to the opportunity to get it right.This feels wrong in so many ways. It feels reckless, careless and selfish. Of course we're supposed to wait until we're sure before we buzz. But the waiting leads to a pattern of not buzzing.No musician is sure her album is going to be a hit. No entrepreneur is certain that every hire is going to be a good one. No parent can know that every decision they make is going to be correct.What separates this approach from mere recklessness is the experience of discovering (in the right situation)that buzzing makes your work better, that buzzing helps you dig deeper, that buzzing inspires you.The habit is simple: buzz first, buzz when you're confident that you've got a shot. Buzz, buzz, buzz. If it gets out of hand, we'll let you know.The act of buzzing leads to leaping, and leaping leads to great work. Not the other way around.  END"}
{"prompt": "A corollary to ‘Too big to fail’ ###", "completion":"Too big to listen.Great organizationslisten to our frustrations, our hopes and our dreams.Alas, when a company gets big enough, it starts to listen to the requirements of its shareholders and its best-paid executives instead.Too big to listen is just a nanometer away from Too big to care.  END"}
{"prompt": "Pugilists ###", "completion":"Fighters and pugilists are different.The fighter fights when she has to, when she's cornered, when someone or something she truly believes in is threatened. It's urgent and it's personal.The pugilist, on the other hand, skirmishes for fun. The pugilist has a hobby, and the hobby is being oppositional.The pugilist can turn any statement, quote or event into an opportunity to have an urgent argument, one that pins you to the ground and makes you question just about anything.Instead of playing chess, the pugilist is playing you.Pugilists make great TV commentators. And they even seem like engaged participants in meetings, for a while. Over time, we realize that they are more interested in seeing what reactions they can get, rather than in actually making positive change happen.A committed pugilist has a long list of clever ways to bait you into an argument. You'll never win, of course, because the argument itself is what the pugilist seeks. Call it out, give it a name, share this post and then walk away. Back to work actually making things better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Pulling a hat out of a rabbit ###", "completion":"It's tempting to do what's been done before, certain in the belief that if you do it, it'll be a little better and a little more popular, merely because you're the one doing it.In fact, though, that's unlikely. You'll care more, but it's unlikely the market will.Consider the alternative, which is choosing to turn the question upside down, to do it backwards, sideways, or in a significantly more generous or risky way.Remarkable often starts with the problem you set out to solve and the way you choose to solve it.  END"}
{"prompt": "The tragedy of small expectations (and the trap of false dreams) ###", "completion":"Ask a hundred students at Harvard Business School if they expect to be up for a good job when they graduate, and all of them will say yes.Ask a bright ten-year old girl if she expects to have a chance at a career as a mathematician, and the odds are she's already been brainwashed into saying no.Expectations aren't guarantees, but expectations give us the chance to act as if, to trade now for later, to invest in hard work and productive dreaming on our way to making an impact.Expectations work for two reasons. First, they give us the enthusiasm and confidence to do hard work. Second, like a placebo, they subtly change our attitude, and give us the resilience to make it through the rough spots. Eventually gives us the energy to persist.When our culture (our media, our power structures, our society) says, people who look like you shouldn't expect to have a life like that, we're stealing. Stealing from people capable of achieving more, and stealing from our community as well. How can our society (that's us) say, we don't expect you to graduate, we don't expect you to lead, we don't expect you to be trusted to make a difference?When people are pushed to exchange their passion and their effort for the false solace of giving up and lowering their expectations, we all lose. And (almost as bad, in the other direction) when they substitute the reality of expectations for the quixotic quest of impossibly large, unrealistic dreams, we lose as well. Disneyesque dreams are a form of hiding, because Prince Charming isn't coming any time soon.Expectations are not guarantees. Positive thinking doesn't guarantee results, all it offers is something better than negative thinking.Expectations that don't match what's possible are merely false dreams. And expectations that are too small are a waste. We need teachers and leaders and peers who will help us dig in deeper and discover what's possible, so we can push to make it likely.Expectations aren't wishes, they're part of a straightforward equation: This work plus that effort plus these bridges lead to a likelihood of that outcome. It's a clear-eyed awareness of what's possible combined with a community that shares your vision.It's easy to manipulate the language of expectations and turn it into a bootstrapping, you're-on-your-own sort of abandonment. But expectation is contagious. Expectation comes from our culture. And most of all, expectation depends on support—persistent, generous support to create a place where leaping can occur.There are limits all around us, stereotypes, unlevel playing fields, systemic challenges where there should be support instead. A quiet but intensely corrosive impact these injustices create is in the minds of the disenfranchised, in their perception of what is possible.The mirror we hold up to the person next to us is one of the most important pictures she will ever see.If we can help just one person refuse to accept false limits, we've made a contribution. If we can give people the education, the tools and the access they need to reach their goals, we've made a difference. And if we can help erase the systemic stories, traditions and policies that push entire groups of people to insist on less, we've changed the world.  END"}
{"prompt": "Did you win? ###", "completion":"A far better question to ask (the student, the athlete, the salesperson, the programmer…) is, what did you learn?Learning compounds. Usually more reliably than winning does.  END"}
{"prompt": "New times call for new decisions ###", "completion":"Those critical choices you made then, they were based on what you knew about the world as it was.But now, you know more and the world is different.So why spend so much time defending those choices?We don't re-decide very often, which means that most of our time is spent doing, not choosing. And if the world isn't changing (if you're not changing) that doing makes a lot of sense.The pain comes from falling in love with your status quo and living in fear of making another choice, a choice that might not work.You might have been right then, but now isn't then, it's now.If the world isn't different, no need to make a new decision.The question is, is the world different now?  END"}
{"prompt": "The problem with holding a grudge ###", "completion":"…is that your hands are then too full to hold onto anything else.It might be the competition or a technology or the lousy things that someone did a decade ago. None of it is going to get better as a result of revisiting the grudge.  END"}
{"prompt": "On adding a zero ###", "completion":"Just about everyone can imagine what it would be like to add 10% more to their output, to be 10% better or faster.Many people can envision what their world would be like if they were twice as good, if the work was twice as insightful or useful or urgent.But ten times?It's really difficult to imagine what you would do with ten times as many employees, or ten times the assets or ten times the audience.And yet imagining it is often the first step to getting there.  END"}
{"prompt": "Three things that make CEOs stupid ###", "completion":"I sat through an endless presentation by the CEO of a fast-growing company. He was doing fine for half an hour, but then, when his time was up, he chose to spend 45 minutes more on his final slide, haranguing and invecting, jumping from topic to topic and basically bringing the entire group to its knees in frustration.Power, of course, is the first problem. When things are going fairly well, the CEO has a ton of power, and often, that power makes things appear to work, even when they're not the right thing to do for the long-term. As a result, there's no market that is correcting the bad decisions, at least not right now.Exposure is the second problem. Once a company gets big enough, the CEO spends his time with investors and senior executives, not with people who actually invent or deliver products and services, and not with customers. Another form of not getting the right feedback, because the people being pleased aren't the right ones.The truth is the final and most endemic problem. Employees incorrectly (in many cases) believe that the boss doesn't want to hear from them, doesn't want constructive feedback. Everyone else has a boss, and built into the nature of boss-ness is the idea that someone is going to tell you what's not working. But we fall into the trap of believing that just because the CEO isn't assigned a boss, he doesn't need or want one.A stupid CEO can coast for a long time if the systems are good. But a stupid CEO is always wasting opportunities, because being smarter usually leads to doing better. Plus, they're a lot more fun to work for.  END"}
{"prompt": "Notes, not received ###", "completion":"An expected apology rarely makes things better. But an expected apology that never arrives can make things worse.An expected thank you note rarely satifies. But an expected thank you that never arrives can make things worse.On the other hand, the unexpected praise or apology, the one that comes out of the blue, can change everything.It's easier than ever to reach out and speak up. Sad, then, how rarely we do it when it's not expected.  END"}
{"prompt": "Predicting the future isn’t easy ###", "completion":"The best plans are based on trends, not specific events.Here's a hopeless task: There are 18 candidates in the GOP race.If you can rank them in the order they're going to drop out, I'll give you a signed copy of my new book or $10,000, your choice. The chances of being correct are 1:18!, or about one in six quadrillion, so I think the prize is safe.On the other hand, this blog's twitter account is consistently creeping toward 500,000 followers. If you can guess the date, I'll send you a signed book. Your odds are a lot better on this one.When in doubt, pick projects where the factors you need to have in place are on the road the audience is already on.  END"}
{"prompt": "What is your art? ###", "completion":"I define art as having nothing at all to do with painting.Art is a human act, a generous contribution, something that might not work, and it is intended to change the recipient for the better, often causing a connection to happen.Five elements that are difficult to find and worth seeking out. Human, generous, risky, change and connection.You can be perfect or you can make art.You can keep track of what you get in return, or you can make art.You can enjoy the status quo, or you can make art.The most difficult part might be in choosing whether you want to make art at all, and committing to what it requires of you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Thoughts for the consigliere ###", "completion":"The marketer, the sales rep, the CFO. These are the indispensable levers that help creative work get to the world. When you're part of a project but not the driving creative force, when you work to lever the work of a team of mad scientists and brilliant designers, consider a blend of three roles:Generous skeptic: When the new idea is on the table, when things are being discussed, hashed out and workshopped, are you able to ask the useful and difficult questions?Someone needs to be the trusted critic, asking not with fear, but with confidence. Your question is useful when it exposes the truth, not when it helps us hide.Shameless cheerleader: Once the work is done and ready for market, your job is to stand fully behind it, far more than even those that actively created it. This might be hard work, but it's your work. If you can't own it, don't ship it.Fierce advocate: And now that it's launched, you put yourself on the line for the change we're out to make in the world. The rest of the team doesn't need to know about how much it costs you to put this out there, just as you don't need to know the pain it took to create it. The relentless push to make the change we seek is a key part of why you're here.These three elements, taken together, define the consigliere who can add extraordinary value to a project, to a leader, to a team. They are the opposite of tell me what to do, combined with, stand with me as we take on the market.  END"}
{"prompt": "Can we talk about this? ###", "completion":"That simple question is the litmus test for a productive relationship.If one professional says it to another, the answer is an emotion-free, sure. There's no baggage. Talking is the point. Talking is what we do. We communicate to solve problems.On the other hand, if the question brings with it fear and agitation and, uh oh, what's wrong, you can bet that important stuff goes undiscussed all the time.[PS altMBA2 applications are due by tomorrow.]  END"}
{"prompt": "In search of your calling ###", "completion":"I don't think we have a calling.I do think it's possible to have a caring.A calling implies that there's just one thing for you, just one thing you're supposed to do.What we most need in our lives, though, is something worth doing, worth it because we care.There are plenty of forces pushing us to not care. Bosses, systems, bureaucracies and the fear of mattering.None of them are worth sacrificing something as important as caring.  END"}
{"prompt": "Opposition ###", "completion":"The opposite of creativity is fear.And fear's enemy is creativity.The opposite of yes is maybe.Because maybe is non-definitive, and both yes and no give us closure and the chance to move ahead.Perfect is the enemy of good.Us is not the enemy of them. Us is the opposite of alone.They can become us as soon as we permit it.Everything is the opposite of okay. Everything can never be okay. Except when we permit it.The right is not the opposite of the left. Each side has the chance to go up, which is precisely the opposite of down.Dreams are not the opposite of reality. Dreams inform reality.  END"}
{"prompt": "You have no credibility (yet) ###", "completion":"You believe you have a great idea, a hit record, a press release worth running, a company worth funding. You know that the customer should use your limited-offer discount code, that the sponsor should run an ad, that the admissions office should let you in. You know that the fast-growing company should hire you, and you're ready to throw your (excellent) resume over the transom.This is insufficient.Your belief, even your proof, is insufficient for you to get the attention, the trust and the action you seek.When everyone has access, no one does. The people you most want to reach are likely to be the very people that are the most difficult to reach.Attention is not yours to take whenever you need it. And trust is not something you can insist on.You can earn trust, just as you can earn attention. Not with everyone, but with the people that you need, the people who need you.This is the essence of permission marketing.When I began in the book industry thirty years ago, if you had a stamp, you had everything you needed to get a book proposal in front of an editor. You could send as many proposals as you liked, to as many editors as you liked. All you needed to do was mail them.In my first year, after my first book came out, I was totally unsuccessful. Not one editor invested in one of the thirty books I was busy creating.It wasn't that the books were lousy. It was me. I was lousy. I had no credibility. I didn't speak the right language, in the right way. Didn't have the credibility to be believed, and hadn't earned the attention of the people I was attempting to work with.Email and other poking methods have made it easy to spew and spray and cold call large numbers of people, but the very ease of this behavior has also made it even less likely to work. The economics of attention scarcity are obvious, and you might not like it, but it's true.The bad news is that you are not entitled to attention and trust. It is not allocated on the basis of some sort of clearly defined scale of worthiness.The good news is that you can earn it. You can invest in the community, you can patiently lead and contribute and demonstrate that the attention you are asking be spent on you is worthwhile.But, no matter how urgent your emergency is, you're unlikely to be able to merely take the attention you want.  END"}
{"prompt": "Day traders rarely make history ###", "completion":"The short-term stuff is pretty easy to do well. Respond to incoming. Check it off your list. Next!The long-term stuff, on the other hand, is so easy to postpone, because tomorrow always sounds promising. And so we might hesitate to define the next project, or look for a new job, or visualize something that breaks what we're already used to.Two thoughts:a. Keep them separate. The best way to avoid long-term work is to be exposed to juicy short-term urgencies.b. Hesitate before spending your most alert and dedicated work time on the short-term tasks.Day trading might be fun, but we can do better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Contempt is contagious ###", "completion":"The only emotion that spreads more reliably is panic.Contempt is caused by fear and by shame and it looks like disgust. It's very hard to recover once you receive contempt from someone else, and often, our response is to dump it on someone else.If you want to be respected by your customers/peers/partners/competitors/constituents, the best way is to begin by respecting them and the opportunity they are giving you.And the best way to avoid contempt is to look for your fear.  END"}
{"prompt": "The average ###", "completion":"Everything you do is either going to raise your average or lower it.The next hire.The quality of the chickpeas you serve.The service experience on register 4.Each interaction is a choice. A choice to raise your average or lower it.Progress is almost always a series of choices, an inexorable move toward mediocrity, or its opposite.  END"}
{"prompt": "Scientific Management 2.0 ###", "completion":"130 years ago, Frederick Taylor changed the world forever.Scientific Management is the now-obvious idea that factories would measure precisely what their workers were doing. Use a stopwatch. Watch every movement. Adjust the movements until productivity goes up. Re-organize the assembly line for more efficiency. Pay people by the piece. Cull the workforce and get rid of the people who can't keep up. Make the assembly line go faster.Once Scientific Management goes beyond system setup and starts to focus on the individual, it amplifies the gulf between management and labor. No one wants to do their work under the stopwatch (except, perhaps, Usain Bolt).And now, here comes SM2.0.White collar workers, the people who get to sit down at a desk, the folks with a keyboard not a hammer, can now be measured more than ever. And in competitive environments, what can be measured, often is.Badge in, badge out.How many keystrokes per hour?How many incoming customer service calls handled per day?What's the close rate, the change in user satisfaction, the clickthroughs, the likes?You can see where this is heading, and it's heading there fast:You will either be seen as a cog, or as a linchpin. You will either be measured in a relentless race to the bottom of the cost barrel, or encouraged in a supportive race to doing work that matters, that only you can do in your unique way.It's not easy to be the person who does unmeasurable work, but is there any doubt that it's worth it?  END"}
{"prompt": "The strawberry conundrum ###", "completion":"Every grocer has to decide: when packing a quart of strawberries, should your people put the best ones on top?If you do, you'll sell more and disappoint people when they get to the moldy ones on the bottom.Or, perhaps you could put the moldy ones on top, and pleasantly surprise the few that buy.Or, you could rationalize that everyone expects a little hype, and they'll get over it.A local grocer turned the problem upside down: He got rid of the boxes and just put out a pile of strawberries. People picked their own. He charged more, sold more and made everyone happier.Hype might not be your best option.  END"}
{"prompt": "Embarrassed ###", "completion":"It’s a tool or a curse, and it comes down to the sentence, I’d be embarrassed to do that.If you’re using it to mean, I would feel the emotion of embarrassment, you’re recognizing one of the most powerful forces of our culture, a basic human emotion, the fear of which allows groups to control outliers, and those in power to shame those that aren’t.The stress that comes from merely anticipating the feeling of embarrassment is enough to cause many people to hold back, to sit quietly, to go along.And this anticipation rarely leads to much of anything positive.On the other hand, if you’re saying, doing that will cause other people to be embarrassed for me, it will change the way they treat me in the future, then indeed, your cultural awareness is paying off. There’s a reason we don’t wear a clown suit to a funeral–and it’s not precisely because of how it would make us feel to do that. It’s because insensitive, unaware, selfish acts change our ability to work with people in the future.Most of the time, then, I would be embarrassed to do that, doesn't mean you would actually be embarrassed, it means you would feel embarrassed.In most settings, the embarrassment people fear isn’t in the actions of others. It’s in our internal narrative. Culture has amplified the lizard brain, and used it to, in too many cases, create a lifetime of negative thinking and self-censorship.So, yes, by all means, don’t make us feel humiliated for you, don’t push us to avert our eyes. But when you feel the unmistakable feeling of possible embarrassment, get straight about what your amygdala is telling you.  END"}
{"prompt": "The one thing that will change everything ###", "completion":"That introduction you need.The capital that your organization is trying to raise.The breakthrough in what you're building…Have you noticed that as soon as you get that one thing, everything doesn't change? In fact, the only thing that changes is that you realize that you don't need that one thing as much as you thought you did.Most likely, this speech, or that inspection or this review won't materially change things overnight.Companies that raise hundreds of millions of dollars don't seem to have an effortless time in changing user behavior, and well connected agents still have trouble selling that next script.It turns out that nothing will change everything for the better. It works better to focus on each step instead of being distracted by a promised secret exit.  END"}
{"prompt": "Sooner or later, the critics move on ###", "completion":"Sooner or later, the ones who told you that this isn't the way it's done, the ones who found time to sneer, they will find someone else to hassle.Sooner or later, they stop pointing out how much hubris you've got, how you're not entitled to make a new thing, how you will certainly come to regret your choices.Sooner or later, your work speaks for itself.Outlasting the critics feels like it will take a very long time, but you're more patient than they are.  END"}
{"prompt": "Looking for change in all the wrong places ###", "completion":"If you're doing something important, you're working to make change happen.But change is difficult, often impossible. Are you trying to change your employees? A entire market? The attitude of a user?The more clear you can be about the specific change you're hoping for (and why the people you're trying to change will respond to your actions) the more likely it is you'll actually achieve it.Here are two tempting dead ends:a. Try to change people who are easy to change, because they show up for clickbait, easy come ons, get rich quick schemes, fringe candidates… the problem is that they're not worth changing.b. Try to change people who aren't going to change, no matter what. The problem is that while they represent a big chunk of humanity, they're merely going to waste your time.  END"}
{"prompt": "After you’ve done your best work ###", "completion":"And it's still not enough…After you've written the best memo/blog post/novel/screenplay you can possibly imagine writing, after you've contributed your pithiest insight or gone on your best blind date…and it still hasn't worked…You really have no choice but to do it again. To do your best work again, as impossible and unfair as that seems.It compounds over time. Best work followed by best work followed by more best work is far more useful and generous than merely doing your best work once and insisting we understand you.  END"}
{"prompt": "SUSDAT ###", "completion":"Abbey Ryan has painted a new painting every day for 8 years.Isaac Asimov published 400 books, by typing every day.This is post #6000 on this blog.Writer's block is a myth, a recent invention, a cultural malady.More important than the output, though, is the act itself. The act of doing it every day. When you commit to a practice, you will certainly have days when you don't feel like it, when you believe it's not your best work, when the muse deserts you. But, when you keep your commitment, the muse returns. When you keep your commitment, the work happens.It doesn't matter if anyone reads it, buys it, sponsors it or shares it. It matters that you show up.Show up, sit down and type. (Or paint).  END"}
{"prompt": "For less than it’s worth ###", "completion":"The only things we spend time and money on are things that we believe are worth more than they cost.The key words of this obvious sentence are often miscalculated:Believe, worth and cost.Believe as in the story we tell ourselves. Believe as in the eye of the beholder. Believe as in emotion.Worth as in what we'll trade. Worth as in our perception of its worth right now, not later. Worth as in how we remember this decision tomorrow or next year.and Cost, as in our expectation of how much it will hurt to get it, not merely the price tag.If people aren't buying your product, it's not because the price is too high. It's because we don't believe you enough, don't love it enough, don't care enough.  END"}
{"prompt": "Thanks, let’s write that down ###", "completion":"One way to deal with clients, with criticism, and with feedback is to not insist on resolving it in the moment.Taking feedback doesn't have to be the same thing as resolving feedback.It's tempting to challenge each bit of criticism, to explain your thinking, to justify the choices. This back and forth feels efficient, but it fails to deliver on a few fronts.First, it makes it more difficult for the client to share her truth, to feel heard.Second, it escalates the tension, because it's almost impossible to successfully resolve each item in real time.If you write it down, you can accept the feedback without judgment.And then, after it's all written down, after the feedback is received, people can change roles. You can sit on the same side of the table, colleagues in search of the best path forward. You can rank by expense, by urgency, by importance. You can agree on timelines and mostly, say, what do we do now?  END"}
{"prompt": "The 2% who misunderstand you ###", "completion":"Sometimes, it's essential that you be completely understood. That every passenger knows where the emergency exit is, or that every employee knows how it is we do things around here.But most of the time, if 2% of your audience doesn't get the joke, doesn't learn what you seek to teach them, doesn't understand the essence of your argument, it's not the problem you think it is.Sure, the 2% who are underinformed can write reviews, tweet indignantly and speak up. You know what? It doesn't matter that much.If you insist on telling everyone on the airplane precisely how to buckle their seatbelt (!), then yes, of course you're going to not only waste the time of virtually everyone, but you're going to train them not to listen to the rest of what you have to say.If you insist on getting every single person in the room to understand every nuance of your presentation, you've just signed up to bore and alienate the very people you needed most.When you find yourself overwriting, embracing redundancy and overwhelming people with fine print, you're probably protecting yourself against the 2%, at the expense of everyone else. (And yes, it might be 10% or even 90%…. that's okay).When we hold back and dumb down, we are hurting the people who need to hear from us, often in a vain attempt to satisfy a few people who might never choose to actually listen.It's quite okay to say, it's not for you.  END"}
{"prompt": "More of a realist ###", "completion":"When did being called a 'realist' start to mean that one is a pessimist?Sometimes, people with small goals call themselves realists, and dismiss those around them as merely dreamers. I think this is backwards.I guess I'm more of a realist than you, actually means, I guess I've discovered that a positive attitude, a generous posture and a bit of persistence makes things better than most people expect.Hope isn't a strategy, but it is an awfully good tactic.  END"}
{"prompt": "Attitude is a skill ###", "completion":"You can learn math. French. Bowling.You can learn Javascript, too.But you can also learn to be more empathetic, passionate, focused, consistent, persistent and twenty-seven other attitudes.If you can learn to be better at something, it's a skill.And if it's a skill, it's yours if you want it.Which is great news, isn't it?[PS Starting today, we’re running a seven-day email sequence to teach you about the upcoming altMBA workshop. Find out morehere.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Industrializing, professionalizing, scaling… ###", "completion":"You could make it into a cookie cutter, a scalable, depersonalized, committee-approved ticket to endless growth.Or you could make it more real, more human and more personal.What is it?It is the interaction you have with your best customer. It is the way you talk to your employees. It is your safety policy, your go to market strategy, your approach to the board meeting.If you can't figure out how to talk to one person, it doesn't really pay to scale up your efforts to talk to a thousand.  END"}
{"prompt": "The banality of the magazine rack ###", "completion":"Stop for a minute to consider those magazines that stack up like firewood at the doctor's office, or that beckon you from the high-priced newsstand before you get on the airplane. The celebrity/gossip/self-improvement category.All the airbrushed pretty people, the replaceable celebrities and near celebrities. The mass-market fad diets, the conventional stories, the sameness tailored for a mass audience.It's pretty seductive. If you can just fit in the way all these magazines are pushing you to fit in, then you'll be okay, alright, and beyond criticism. Boys and girls should act like this, dress like this, talk like this. Even the outliers are outliers in tried and true, conventional ways.The headlines are interchangeable. So are the photos and the celebrities, the stories and the escapades and the promises.Magazines believe they have to produce this cultural lighthouse in order to sell ads–there are advertisers that want average readers in order to sell them their average products. But this doesn't have to be you. These aren't cultural norms, they're merely a odd sub-universe, a costume party for people unwilling to find their own voice.  END"}
{"prompt": "#WeAreAllWeird (3 contest updates) ###", "completion":"1. You can win four books, signed by the authors, with a tweet. Rules are here. Tell us why you are not part of the lockstep masses.2. I recently blogged about long odds (one in a quadrillion) and how hard it is to predict the future. It turns out that of the 897 people who entered my presidential bracket game, there’s only ONE contender left. Even though only two candidates have dropped out, there's already more than a 99% failure rate in predicting this future. And I think the prize is safe, because the only remaining contender has picked Christie and Bush as the next two to go.3. Within 24 hours of recent events virtually determining the first question I surveyed, we also have an answer to the second one. Today’s the day my blog hit 500k followers on Twitter. As you can see, the crowd was off a bit on this as well. I’ve emailed the seven top entries to send them a prize.Thanks for giving it a whirl.  END"}
{"prompt": "Dreams and fears ###", "completion":"Sooner or later, important action taken comes down to this.Fear: Of being ashamed, feeling stupid, being rejected, being left out, getting hurt, being embarrassed, left alone, dying.Dreams: Of being seen, being needed, becoming independent, relieving anxiety, becoming powerful, making someone proud, fitting in, seen as special, mattering, taken care of, loved.Marketers put many layers atop these basic needs (horsepower, processor speed, features, pricing, testimonials, guarantees, and more) but it all comes down to dreams and fears.  END"}
{"prompt": "Witch hunts make no sense ###", "completion":"They are based on a fallacy: I am irrationally afraid and persecuting this innocent person will make me feel better.Which is expressed by those in power as: There's a good reason I'm afraid and punishing this person will make that reason go away.Hunting witches never makes things better. Partlybecause there are no witches.But mostly because it'sreally unlikely that we'reafraid for a good reason (our fear is just about always irrational). And of course, our irrational fear has nothing to do with the person or the group we're using a scapegoat.So much more useful and productiveto say, I'm afraid, and leave it at that.  END"}
{"prompt": "Symbolic logic ###", "completion":"I was so transformed by the symbolic logic course I took in college that I took another one in grad school.Can you learn to organize five true statements into a sixth one?More important than just about any course that's based on facts, symbolic logic is an elegant way to buildfacts into arguments and arguments into change that lasts.There are several good free courses online. Here's one.  END"}
{"prompt": "Entitlement vs. worthiness ###", "completion":"Entitlement is the joy killer.Halloween is hardly what it could be. Any other day of the year, hand a kid a chocolate bar and he'll be thrilled. Do it on Halloween and it's worth almost nothing.When you receive something you feel entitled to, something expected, that you believe you've earned, it's not worth much. And when you don't receive it, you're furious. After all, it's yours. Already yours. And you didn't get it. Whether you're wearing a hobo costume or showing up as a surgeon after years of medical school, entitlement guarantees that you won't get what you need.Worthiness, on the other hand, is an essential part of receiving anything.When you feel unworthy, any kind response, positive feedback or reward feels like a trick, a scam, the luck of the draw. It's hardly worth anything, because you decided in advance, before you got the feedback, that you weren't worthy.It's possible to feel worthy without feeling entitled. Humility and worthiness have nothing at all to do with defendingour territory. We don't have to feel like a fraud to also be gracious, open or humble.Both entitlement and unworthiness are the work of the resistance. The twin narratives make us bitter, encourage us to be ungenerous, keep us stuck. Divas are divas because they've tricked themselves into believing both narratives–that they're not getting what they're entitled to, and, perversely, that they're not worth what they're getting.The entitled yet frightened voice says, What's the point of contributing if those people aren't going to appreciate it sufficiently?And the defensive unworthy voice says, What's the point of shipping thework if Idon't think I'mworthy of being paid attention to…The universe, it turns out, owes each of us very little indeed. Hard work and the dangerous commitment to doing something that matters doesn't get usa guaranteed wheelbarrow of prizes… but what it does do is help us understand our worth. That worth, over time, can become an obligation, the chance to do our best work and to contribute to communities we care about.When the work is worth it, make more of it, because you can, and because you're generous enough to share it.I'm not worthy, isn't a useful way to respond to success. And neither is, that's it?It might be better if we were just a bit better at saying, thank you.  END"}
{"prompt": "The other element of guerilla marketing ###", "completion":"The first element is the guts to do things without money or bureaucratic approval.The guerrilla marketer doesn't wait for a policy, or a developed industry or a line to form. She steps up and speaks up.But, as Jay Levinson said from the start, more than thirty years ago, the other half is at least as important, and easy to overlook:The core element of guerilla marketing is generosity.You don't market at people, or even to people. We market for them and with them.Guerrillas have long understood that it's possible to attractsomeone's attention. What makes it a viable approach, though, is that people are delighted once they find out what you've got going on. Effective guerrilla marketing always begins with a product or service that's worth the marketing you're going to put into it.Hence the two tensions: Big company industrial marketers don't believe enough in what they sell to become guerilla marketers. Guerrilla marketing flies in the face of bureaucratic indifference.Many would-beguerrilla marketers spend so much time seeking attention that sometimes they forget to re-focus on the promises being made. Next Monday is World Guerrilla Marketing Day, a holiday I just made up, guerrilla-style. What will you ship?  END"}
{"prompt": "Bravery is for other people ###", "completion":"Bravery is for the people who have no choice, people like Chesley Sullenberger and Audie Murphy.Bravery is for the people who are gifted, people like Ralph Abernathy, Sarah Kay and Miles Davis.Bravery is for the people who are called, people like Abraham Lincoln, Rosa Parks and Mother Theresa.Bravery is for other people.When you see it that way, it's so clearly and patently absurd that it's pretty clear that bravery is merely a choice.At least once in your life (maybe this week, maybe today) you did something that was brave and generous and important. The only question is one of degree… when will we care enough to be brave again?  END"}
{"prompt": "70% re-orders is a sweet spot ###", "completion":"My latest book, Your Turn, just went back for its third and fourth printings, bringing the total to more than 100,000 copies in print.I did some math on the orders and discovered that more than 70% of them were going to people who had previously ordered a copy.This never happens.It never happens because the book industry is built on the idea of inventing desire and then destroying it by selling the reader a copy. You never need two copies of a book, after all, and so there's an insatiable need for new readers.In the case of Your Turn, though, the book is intentionally built and sold as a way of spreading an idea… once people see the benefit in spreading the idea, many of them decide to spread it more. Most people buy the 5 pack.It occurs to me that 70% is almost a magic number for re-orders in just about any business. It means that new people are hearing about your work and showing up to try it, and it also signifies that there's a base audience that's counting on you to do what you promised.How would your project change if you re-organized what you do to get to a sweet spot of re-orders?I had to take a leap in the creation, distribution and pricing of my book to create that dynamic. What would you need to do?PS To celebrate the new print run, I just added a long lost video of me launching Linchpin in NYC in 2010. It's on the Your Turn page, about a third of the way down. Read the copy near the top to get the password.Thanks for the work you do and the impact you make.  END"}
{"prompt": "First, interact ###", "completion":"The best way to tell if your speech is going to go well is to give your speech.The best way to find out if your new product has market appeal is to try to sell it.The best way to become a teacher is to teach.There's a huge need for study, refinement and revision. No question about it.None of it means anything, though, if you are hiding from the market.There used to be a dangerous myth: the genius in an attic, who arrives one day, fully formed, with a grant, a Pulitzer and a string of accolades, out of nowhere.Great work doesn't come out of nowhere. It comes out of interactions with the people you seek to change.  END"}
{"prompt": "Are you interesting? ###", "completion":"More interesting than you realize.An interesting person is interesting to us because she combines two things: Truth and surprise.The truth: Not necessarily a law of physics, not necessarily a measurable truth in nature, but merely the truth of experience. I believe this, or I see that.And surprise. Note that surprise is always local. Surprising to me, the audience. That's one reason that it's said that interesting people are interested—they are empathetic enough to realize what might be surprising to the person in the room, and they care enough to deliver on that insight.Everyone is capable of telling the truth. And everyone has been surprising at least once.Which means that being an interesting person is a choice. We can choose to show up, to care enough to contribute our humanity to the next interaction.It's a choice, but a difficult one, because being interesting feels risky. People are afraid to be interesting, not unable to be interesting.You're not born uninteresting. But it's entirely possible you've persuaded yourself to be so frightened of the consequences that you no longer have the passion, the generosity or the guts to be interesting any longer.Without a doubt, we need your interesting.[HT Austin]  END"}
{"prompt": "Selling like Steve ###", "completion":"Have you thought about the fact that just about every time Steve Jobs appeared in public, he was selling us something?And yet few rolled their eyes and said, oh, here comes another sales pitch.Jobs sold us expensive, high margin hardware that we knew would eventually become obsolete, and yet people lined up to hear the pitch. How come?I think it's because he was saying:Here, I made this. It might be worth talking about.Inherent in this statement is the flip side, it might not work.And in almost every case, he was right. That it might be worth talking about, and that it might not work.In almost every case, skeptics pounced. People discussed his work.Sometimes he was early, but he was usually interesting. That's a slot that's available to more people than ever before,regardless of industry or audience.Average stuff for average people is getting ever more difficult to sell. If that's all you've got, get something else.  END"}
{"prompt": "Gravity and entropy, denied ###", "completion":"The 747 is a very large plane. But that doesn't mean it's easier to get off the ground–in fact, it's more difficult.As your project and your organization grows in size, it's tempting to hope that at some point it will take care of itself. That customer service will get better without a herculean effort to keep it un-industrialized. That quality will be consistent, without extraordinary efforts from truly committed people.Alas, that's not what happens. Gravity sets in with scale, and almost all the forces push in one direction–away from amazing.Danny Meyer runsmore than a dozen well-known restaurants, and the reason that they're well known is that he and his staff act like they own one restaurant, a brand new one, one with something to prove. It's tonight or never.Also! As your project and your organization develop over time, randomness and unpredictability occurs. Entropy is a force of nature… over time, stuff gets more scrambled, not more orderly. Things decay. Left alone, just about anything we create fades to mediocrity or instability.Which is why we can't leave it alone.If you want to dream, it's fun to talk about self-managed teams, crowd-built organizations,autonomous excellence. And if you can find it, by all means, congratulations. For the rest of us, though, the challenges of scale and time will always involve extraordinary effort from dedicated people, doing the heavy lifting to fight off the almost unstoppable forces of mediocrity.Don't scale because you think there's a pot of gold over that rainbow. Scale because you're ready and eager to do heroic work, every day, forever.Once you know what you're in for, like the engineers at Boeing, you can invest in bigger jets and make sure they're working.  END"}
{"prompt": "What does branded look like? ###", "completion":"The vast majority of products that are sold are treated as generic by just about everyone except the naive producer, who believes he has a brand of value.A branded object or service has two components, one required, one desired:1. Someone who isn't even using it can tell, from a distance, who made it. It appears that it could only be made by that producer(or it's an illegal knock off).Ralph Lauren certainly got our attention when he started making his logo bigger and bigger, but we also see this in the shape of a Paloma Picasso pin, or the label on a pair of Tom's shoes, or the red soles of Louboutin or the sound of a Harley or the cadence of Sarah Kay or …If we (the user or the observer) can't tell who made it, then there's no brand. That's the distinction between generic and specific…2. In the long haul, successfully branded items succeed because the user likes that the brand is noticed in daily use, either by others or even by themselves.That's subtle but crucial. Does the very existence of the logo or the identifier or the distinction make the user happier?Can you imagine how crestfallen the debutante wouldbe if her date didn'teven know what a Birkin bag was?  END"}
{"prompt": "About to be ###", "completion":"The only way to become the writer who has written a book is to write one.The only way to become the runner who has just finished a run is to go running.You might dread the writing or the running or the leading, but it's the key step on the road to becoming.If it's easier, remind yourself what you're about to be.  END"}
{"prompt": "Past performance is not indicative of future results ###", "completion":"This is clearly and demonstrably true of mutual funds. It's easy to confirm.And yet…We are very uncomfortable with randomness. So the newspaper does a 12 page section of mutual funds, filled with articles and ads and charts, all touting past performance.Superstition is what we call the belief in causation due to a mistaken correlation of unrelated data. A broken mirror doesn't actually cause seven years of bad luck, and cheering in a certain way isn't going to help the Yankees, sorry.Of course, we don't live in a completely random world. The scientific method and statistics make it more likely than ever that you can find trends that actually matter.The hard part is accepting that the random things actually are unpredictable, and refusing to spend time or money guessing on what can't be reliably guessed. It frees up a lot of time and resources to focus on the things that are actually worth measuring.  END"}
{"prompt": "Unconscious consumption ###", "completion":"Black Friday, of course, is a con.But it's also a symptom of a terrible trap we've set for ourselves.Consider the joy a little kid has the first time he spends his own money to buy an ice cream cone. This isn't something he does every day, it's not something he has to do, it's not something he's trying to get over with. Instead, the entire process unrolls in slow motion. It's consumption, no doubt about it, the last step in a long industrial/agricultural/marketing system. But at least this last step is special beyond words.Now, consider the mall. The mall, today.For the three billion people on Earth who have never experienced air conditioning, window displays and the extraordinary safety and wealth that the mall represents, a trip to the mall is mindblowing. For the typical consumer, egged onby a media frenzy and harried by a completely invented agenda, today is nothing but a hassle.All that time, all that money, all those emotions spent for not one good reason.It's more about what you didn't get on sale, or how many more people you need to cross off or just how much shiny but useless stuff you can grab faster than the next person. A reversal of 100,000 years of not enough to a brief few decades of more, more, more.Every person reading this today has access to more wealth than the last King of France did. An astounding array of choices, a bounty of available connections and emotions.Don't let someone else scam you into being unhappy.  END"}
{"prompt": "The vulnerability of ‘thank you’ ###", "completion":"Thank you as in: I couldn't do it without you. As in: I don't want to do this alone. As in: I was afraid. And mostly: I would miss you if you were gone.Thank you brings us closer together.Thank you is a limb worth going out on.  END"}
{"prompt": "The end of the future is premature ###", "completion":"Twenty years ago, when I was working on projects with AOL, we were sure that this was the next big thing for a long time to come. It was a profitable natural monopoly, one that could expand to serve everyone's needs. They were the end of the future of the Internet.When onesurveyed people in 1996, most thought AOL = The Internet. They were the same thing, game over.Then, of course, just four years later, Yahoo cornered the market. It was where everyone started their internet experience. All you needed. That didn't last more than a decade.We have similar conversations about the form factor and platform of the iPhone. And Facebook, of course, will be the way generations connect online… it's hard to imagine the next thing.Until it's here.As far as I can tell, there's always a next thing.[Even better, it turns out that this thing, the thing we have now, is worth working with, because it offers so many opportunities compared with merely waiting for the next thing.]  END"}
{"prompt": "All cases are special cases ###", "completion":"The art of the successful institution is figuring out which cases are special enough to deserve a fresh eye.It's virtually impossible to scale an institution that insists on making a new decision every time it encounters a new individual. On the other hand, what makes a bureaucracy stupid is its insistence that there are no special cases.They're all special. The difficult work at scale is figuring out which ones are special enough.And, if you want to be seen and respected and sought out as the anti-bureaucracy, there's your strategy: All cases are special cases.Good judgment, it turns out, is very difficult to boil down to a few pages in a rulebook.  END"}
{"prompt": "Thanksgiving reminder ###", "completion":"Today's a good day to download The Thanksgiving Reader. It's free to share, of course.We're gratified at the huge number of families that have already downloaded and printed a copy. And the creative ways people are choosing to share it. A school in California printed a copy for each of their staff, and distributed them in beautiful folios.If each of us shares it with ten people this week, we'll have created a new tradition.Have a wonderful holiday.  END"}
{"prompt": "Is productive the same as busy? ###", "completion":"No one complains of having spent an entire day doing 'productive work'. Busywork, on the other hand, is mindnumbing.It's possible that if you have a job where your tasks (your busy-ness) is programmed by someone else, that being busy is your job.For everyone else, though, busymight be precisely the opposite of productive.Maybe the best exhortation isn't to, get busy.Instead, perhapsit involves slowing down enough to feel the fear. The fear that we might only hear in the quiet moments, in the gaps between crises.The fear isanecessary part ofactually being productive in doing creative work.  END"}
{"prompt": "Did you do the reading? ###", "completion":"It's absurd to think of going to a book group meeting and opining about a book you didn't even read.More rude: Going to a PhD seminar and participating in the discussion without reading the book first.And of course, no one wants a surgeon operating on them if she hasn't read the latest journal article on this particular procedure.It makes no sense to me to vote for a candidate who doesn't care enough to have read (and understood) the history of those that came before.A first hurdle: Are youaware of what the reading (your reading) mustinclude? What's on the list? The more professional your field, the more likely it is that people know what's on the list.The reading isn't merely a book, of course. The reading is what we call it when you do the difficult work of learning to think with the best, to stay caught up, to understand.The reading exposes you to the state of the art. The reading helps you follow a thought-through line of reasoning and agree, or even better, challenge it. The reading takes effort.If you haven't done the reading, why expect to be treated as a professional?  END"}
{"prompt": "Fighting entropy ###", "completion":"It's not easy to run a supermarket. Low margins, high rents, perishable products… Even A&P, once dominant, is now gone.My new favorite supermarket, by a large margin, is Cid's.It's not that he's in a perfect location, or that his store has the advantage of no competition.How does he do it? Fair prices, great stuff where you least expect it, a staff that cares…He's in the store, every day. And his son is too.My only theory is this: He fights mediocrity every single day.He regularly refuses to compromise when compromise might be easier in the short run.Mostly, he cares. A lot.Entropy and the forces of mediocrity push hard. People who care push back.  END"}
{"prompt": "It’s not a problem if you prepare for it ###", "completion":"Buffalo famously gets a lot of snow. Growing up there, though, no one really freaked out about it, because we had machines to get rid of it and the attitude that it was hardly a problem worth hyperventilating over.Most problems are like that. When we prepare for them and get used to them, they're not problems anymore. They're merely the way it is.{Learn to see}.  END"}
{"prompt": "Surefire predictions ###", "completion":"I'm betting on the following happening in 2016:An eventwill happen that will surprise, confound and ultimately bore the pundits.Out of the corner of your eye, you'll notice something new that will delight you.You'll be criticized for work you shipped,even though it wasn't made for the person who didn't like it.Something obvious will become obvious.A pop culture emergency will become the thing that everyone is talking about, distracting us from the actually important work at hand.You'll gain new leverageand the ability to make even more of a difference.We'll waste more than a billion hours staring at screens. (That's in total, but for some people, it might feel like an individual number).That thing that everyone was afraid of won't come to pass.Some people will gain (temporary) power by ostracizing the other, amplifying our fears and racing to the bottom.And the long-term trend toward connection, dignity and possibility will continue. Slowly.Opportunities will be missed. Lessons will be learned.You'll say or write something that will shine a light, open a door and make a connection.Nothing will be as perfect as we imagined it. Many things will be better than that, though.Leaps will be taken.You will exceed expectations.The project you've been working on will begin to pay off in unexpected ways, if you're open to seeing them.You will start something. And quit something.That expensive habit that you don't even enjoy that much will continue to be expensive.We'll forget some hard lessons but we'll also learn some new ones.A pretty safe list, because, of course, this always happens.{Level up}  END"}
{"prompt": "Is it too little butter, or too much bread? ###", "completion":"Bilbo Baggin'sgreat quote about being stretched thin (I feel thin, sort of stretched, like butter scraped over too much bread.)reveals a profound truth:Most individuals and organizations complain of not having enough butter. We need more resources, we say, to cover this much territory. We need more (time/money/staff) to get the job done.What happens if instead of always seeking more butter, we find the discipline to cover less bread?Spreading our butter too thin is a form of hiding. It helps us be busy, but makes it unlikely we will make an impact.It turns out that doing a great job with what we've got is the single best way to get a chance to do an even better job with more, next time.{Make a ruckus}.  END"}
{"prompt": "One big idea ###", "completion":"Most breakthrough organizations aren't built on a bundle of wonderment, novelty and new ideas.In fact, they usually involve just one big idea.The rest is execution, patience, tactics and people. The ability to see what's happening and to act on it. The rest is doing the stuff we already know how to do, the stuff we've seen before, but doing it beautifully.You probably don't need yet another new idea. Better to figure out what to do with the ones you've got.{altMBA alum}  END"}
{"prompt": "Business ethics, ripples and the work that matters ###", "completion":"The happy theory of business ethics is this: do the right thing and you will also maximize your long-term profit.After all, the thinking goes, doing the right thing builds your brand, burnishes your reputation, helps you attract better staff and gives back to the community, the very community that will in turn buy from you. Do all of that and of course you'll make more money. Problem solved.The unhappy theory of business ethics is this: you have a fiduciary responsibility to maximize profit. Period. To do anything other than that is to cheat your investors. And in a competitive world, you don't have much wiggle room here.If you would like to believe in business ethics, the unhappy theory is a huge problem.As the world gets more complex, as it's harder to see the long-term given the huge short-term bets that are made, as business gets less transparent (which company made that, exactly?) and as the web of interactions makes it harder for any one person to stand up and take responsibility, the happy theory begins to fall apart. After all, if the long-term effects of a decision today can't possibly have any impact on the profit of this project (which will end in six weeks), then it's difficult to argue that maximizing profit and doing the right thing are aligned. The local store gets very little long-term profit for its good behavior if it goes out of business before the long-term arrives.It comes down to this: only people can have ethics. Ethics, as in, doing the right thing for the community even though it might not benefit you or your company financially. Pointing to the numbers (or to the boss) is an easy refuge for someone who would like to duck the issue, but the fork in the road is really clear. You either do work you are proud of, or you work to make the maximum amount of money. (It would be nice if those overlapped every time, but they rarely do).I just work here is the worst sort of ethical excuse. I'd rather work with a company filled with ethical people than try to find a company that's ethical. In fact, companies we think of as ethical got that way because ethical people made it so.I worry that we absolve ourselves of responsibility when we talk about business ethics and corporate social responsibility. Corporations are collections of people, and we ought to insist that those people (that would be us) do the right thing. Business is too powerful for us to leave our humanity at the door of the office. It's not business, it's personal.[I learned this lesson from my Dad. Every single day he ledby example, building a career and a company based on taking personal responsibility, not on blaming the heartless, profit-focused system.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Very good results (and an alternative) ###", "completion":"Hard work, diligence and focus often lead to very good results. These are the organizations and individuals that consistently show up and work toward their goals.But exceptional results, hyper-growth and remarkable products and services rarely come from the path that leads to very good results. These are non-linear events, and they don't come from linear effort or linear skill.It's tempting to adopt the grind-it-out mindset, because that's something we know how to do, it's a method that we can model, it's a sort of work ethic.But by itself, the grind-it-out mindset isn't going to get us a leap. It's not going to lead to a line out the door or 15% monthly growth. That only comes from giving up.We need to give up some of the truths that are the foundation of our work, or give up on some of the people we work with, or give up on the conventional wisdom. Mostly, we need to give up on getting approval from our peers.Of course, we still have to keep showing up and grinding out. But we have to do it with a different rhythm, in service of a different outcome.More hours in the practice room doesn't turn a pretty good musician into a jazz pioneer. More hours in front of the computer doesn't make your writing breathtaking.Sure, the work might be just as hard, but it's work of a different sort.  END"}
{"prompt": "Let’s build a school ###", "completion":"Consider a last-minute donation to Room to Read. They will facilitate the building of a school in a village that has no school.Imagine growing up in a place with no school…And your donation will be matched dollar for dollar. It's difficult to overestimate the long-term impact of literacy. I've been a supporter for years, and it always feels good.And.. Some of my colleagues have stepped up and started the Compassion Collective, an urgent causesupporting those most in need from the refugee crisis.Please consider adding your support.THANK YOU!  END"}
{"prompt": "Powering a digital future ###", "completion":"Only twenty years ago, when we first started figuring out the digital landscape, there were no tools. None.Sending 400 emails was a feat, and having a website was a little like having a pet monkey. Rare, expensive and difficult.Now, there are tools. (Scroll down to the see the huge list). Thousands of them. Most cheap, most vibrant, all of them interesting signposts on one version of the road to where we're heading next.I've spent about ten hours going through this list. Data moves back and forth, information is presented in dozens of ways, systems are robust and can be used by organizations of any size.The last decades were about everyone becoming a publisher (blogs, photos,videos). Now, everyone is also a digital marketer/data wizard.Even if you don't use these tools to spread your message or manage your time, know that someone else is going to.  END"}
{"prompt": "Half measures ###", "completion":"If you're hungry, half a meal is better than no meal.But if you need light, half a lightbulb is actually worse than none at all.If you're hoping for an 8% return on your investment, 4% is a lot better than zero.And half a home runis worse than nothing.We make two common mistakes:Refusing half when it's a whole lot better than nothing, and,Accepting half when we'd be better off waiting for what we really need.We are at our best when we set our standardsbefore the offer comes, and when we don't waver in the moment.  END"}
{"prompt": "Fit and finish ###", "completion":"It's pretty clear that the design of the egg carton isn't going to change the flavor of the omelette.Except, of course, it does.It does because people can't judge the eggs until they eat them, but they can judge the packaging in the store. And if they choose someone else's product, you never get a chance.Not only that, but the placebo effect creates a self-fulfilling prophecy. We like what we liked. The customer wouldrather be proven right than proven wrong.That's why it's so important to understand the worldview and biases of the person you seek to influence, to connect with, to delight. And why the semiotics and stories we produce matter so much more than we imagine.It's not always fair or right or efficient that we need to worry about how we and our work will be judged. Until we come up with a better way to communicate what we've done, though, prepare to be judged in advance.  END"}
{"prompt": "3-D printers, the blockchain and drones ###", "completion":"New technology demands something important to move from early-adopter novelty to widely embraced tool:Examples.Examples and stories and use cases that describebenefits we can't live without.The beauty of examples is that they can travel further and faster than the item itself. The story of an example is enough to open the door of imagination, to get 1,000 or 1 million copycat stories to enter the world soon after.Email had plenty of examples, early and often. Stories about email helped us see that it would save time and save money, help us reach through the bureaucracy, save time and cycle faster. It took just a few weeks for stories of email to spread through business school when I was there, more than thirty years ago.On the other hand, it took a long time for the story of the mobile phone to be deeply understood. For years, it was seen as a phone without wires, not a supercomputer that would change the way a billion people interact.Most of the stories of Bitcoin haven't been about the blockchain. They've been about speculators, winning and losing fortunes. And most of the stories of 3-D printers have been about printingsmall, useless toys, including little pink cacti. And most of the stories about home drones have been about peeping toms and cool videos you can watch after other people make them.Choose your stories carefully.  END"}
{"prompt": "But what will I tell the others? ###", "completion":"Seven urgent words that are rarely uttered.The profound question thatclueless marketers almost never consider.The wordswe imagine we'll tell the boss, the neighbors, our spouse after we make a change or take an action… this drives the choices that constitute our culture, it's the secret thread that runs through just about everything we do.  END"}
{"prompt": "The mythical 10x marketer ###", "completion":"She's not a myth.Some marketers generate ten times (or a hundred times) as much value as a typical marketing person. How come? The 10x marketer understands that the job isn't to do marketing the way the person before you did it, or the way your boss asked you to do it. Strategic marketing comes from questioning the tactics, understanding who you are seeking to change and being willing to re-imagine the story your organization tells. Don't play the game, change the game.The 10x marketer doesn't fold in the face of internal opposition. These two points are essential and easily overlooked. If you are merely doing your job and also working hard to soothe all constituencies, it's almost certain that your efforts (no matter how well-intentioned or skilled) will not create ten times as much value as a typical marketer would.This means that an organization that isn't getting 10x marketing needs to begin by blaming itself (for not asking the right question and for not supporting someone who answers the other question). 10x marketers are made, not born, and half the battle iscreating a platformwhere one can work.Beyond that, the 10x marketer embraces two apparently contradictory paths: Persistence in the face of apathy. Important marketing ideas are nearly always met with skepticism or hostility, from co-workers, from critics and from the market. Showing up, again and again, with confidence and generosity, is the best response.The willingness to quit what isn't working. Sometimes the marketer faces a dip that must be survived, but the 10x marketer is also engaged enough to know the difference between that dip and a dead end that has no hope. Not every project needs a 10x marketer. If you sell a commodity (or something you treat like a commodity) it'll almost never happen. But if 10x is what you're hoping for, learn to dance.  END"}
{"prompt": "Without a doubt ###", "completion":"Occasionally, people in power come to the conclusion that doubt is a problem.They conflate confidence with certainty.Along the way, things worked out for them. They had a willingness to leap, some lucky breaks and a lot of hard work. So they seduce themselves with the black and white dichotomy of certainty. Because, after all, they were certain and look what happened. It all worked out.Certainty is a form of hiding. It is a way of drowning out our fear, but it's also a surefire way to fail to see what's really happening around us.If you're certain, you're probably not prepared for the unexpected, and sooner or later, you're going to be badly surprised.People without doubt aren't looking hard enough.  END"}
{"prompt": "When I want your opinion… ###", "completion":"As you get better at your job, people will ask for feedback.The most powerful feedback is based on data and experience. Actually, no, we shouldn't put the Crockpots on sale, because every time we run a promo our Crockpot sales have been dwindling, and anyway, the big online store still sells them for less than we do.These are facts, things we can look up and argue about whether they matter.It's also interesting to get feedback based on testable hypotheses: No, I don't think you should call it that, because many of our customers will assume you mean a form of marijuana.This is only your opinion so far, but without too much trouble, we can dig in and find out if your take on it is widely held.But often, people will show you something where facts and hypotheses aren't really germane. Should we paint the door of the building beige or red? In moments like this, there are three ways to be helpful:a. You can acknowledge that this is a matter of taste, find out what the boss likes and let her own the decision.b. You can engage in a dialogue with the boss about what her strategy is when making this decision. Bring facts and data to the table. A thoughtful dialogue with a rational, trusted colleague can open all sorts of doors in decision making.c. You can acknowledge that your opinion is an opinion, and not try to make it sound like a fact or even a testable hypothesis. Boss, the logo choice is always a crap shoot, but at first glance, my uninformed opinion is that it's too garish.All three of these approaches make it far more likely that your fact-based feedback and hypotheses are taken more seriously next time.[Today's the day that bestselling author Al Pittampalli's book, Persuadable, launches. His newbook is a big deal, a research-based, practical guide to help us understand that people who change their minds are actuallythe most likely to change the world. A must read. Al keeps challenging our perceptions and helping us make a difference with our work.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Eventually, snow melts ###", "completion":"That doesn't mean that there isn't value in shoveling someone's walk.Most things will get addressed sooner or later.What happens if you take the side ofsooner?The naysayers will share plenty of reasons not to stick your neck out.There are good reason to ignore those skeptics: Because it matters. Because we need your leadership. Because now is better than later.  END"}
{"prompt": "All my best posts are the posts I haven’t written ###", "completion":"Sometimes I'll get a great idea for a post while out walking or showering or generally not in front of a keyboard. Not just great ideas, but fabulous ones.And then, after rehearsing the keywords over and over so I don't forget before I write it down, I forget.And that post, the post I didn't write, the post that never saw the light of day–that's the best post ever.I think most dreams work this way.The thing is, an unwritten post is no post at all. It's merely a little bit of gossamer on wings of hope. Doesn't count.The only good posts are the ones I've written.I think most dreams work this way, too.  END"}
{"prompt": "The client and the customer ###", "completion":"This is a choice, a huge one in the life of the freelancer, the entrepreneur or anyone who seeks to engage with the marketplace.The customer buys (or doesn't buy) what you make.The client asks you to make something.The customer has the power to choose, but the client has the power to define, insist and spec.There is a large number of potential customers, and you make for them before you know precisely who they are.There are just a relative handful of clients, though, and your work happens after you find them.If a customer doesn't like what's on offer, she can come back tomorrow. If the client doesn't like what you deliver, she might leave forever.You can do great work for either.But don't confuse them.Choose your customers. Choose your clients.And most of all, choose which category you're serving.[Worth noting: Software and the internet let us disrupt a market by transforming clients into customers and customers into clients. People who used to have to take what was an offer can now get a customized version almost as easily. And people who used to pay extra for the bespoke version can now have the convenience and economy of merely buying what's on offer.]  END"}
{"prompt": "On average, averages are stupid ###", "completion":"Across our 100 locations, sales on average are up 3% last month.This tells you exactly nothing.It turns out that ten of the outlets each saw their sales double, while most of the other ones are stagnating or even decreasing in sales. That's the insight.Averages almost always hide insights instead of exposing them. If the problem is interesting enough to talk about, it's interesting enough to show the true groupings and differences that the average is hiding.Here's what's worth discussing instead: What are the outliers? What do they have in common? Are there explainable trends, or is there merely noise?The hard part about telling the truth with numbers often isn't finding the truth. It's having the guts to share the truth.  END"}
{"prompt": "A whole year? Yes, a whole year for leaping. ###", "completion":"Every four years, the worldwide calendar reminds us ofa secret.Leaping.Leaping powers innovation, it is the engine of not only our economy, but of a thrilling and generous life.Of course, you can (and should) be leaping regularly. Like bathing, leaping is a practice, something that never gets old, and is best done repeatedly.But we don't need a worldwide holiday (one that lasts an entire year) for you to leap. You're already doing it.No, the benefitof the holiday is to give you an excuse to encourage others to leap. It's socially acceptable to say, Happy leap year. And then explain. Every four years we get to spread this subversive idea.The existing power structure wants to maintain the status quo, and is generally opposed to the concept of leaping. In fact, if you want to make change happen, if you want to give others a chance to truly make a difference and to feel alive, it's essential that you encourage, cajole and otherwise spread the word about what it means to leap.Right now, tell ten people about how you're leaping. Ask ten people about how they hope to leap…An opportunityto help the people around you level up. It's an obligation, an opportunity and a chance that I hope you'll accept. Tell the others.Culture changes everything.To celebrate this magical day, a few suggestions. First, two projects I've done as fundraisers forAcumen'seducationalwork (all of my share goes to their essentialwork in building a new way to educate social entrepreneurs):Leap First, a short audio program I recorded for Sounds True.There's a special price today in honor of leap year.Also…Mymuch celebrated Leadership Workshop is now available in a more traditional online-course format. That link takes you to + Acumen and a significantdiscount if you sign up with them. You can find the course pagehere.Thanks topeople like you, we've already raised more than $120,000 for Acumen.Here are some quotes and reviews from the first two disruptions on offer:So eye opening! Thank you so much for sharing with us and for contributing your knowledge to benefit a larger causeNo more standing on the sidelines. If it’s change we are going to make, we are in good companySeth does it again, in a calm and clear voice, sharing ideas that will empower you to think and leap towards working and shipping with intention.I consider myself a student of Seth's concepts, ideas and work, if you are like me you will find it refreshing and with sharpened insights, if you are new, prepare to live and work in a truly different way.Terrific three hours. Plenty to think about. Plenty to do…And two more to consider, when you're ready to help people get serious about the opportunity:You can buy 120 copies of Your Turnfor $96 off today only using code LeapYear. What would you do with 120 books? How about starting a conversation across your entire organization about what it means to leap?And,Today's a great day to forward this link about the altMBA. Applications have just openedfor session 5, our last session before the summer.Une dernière chose : Si vous parlez français, vous pouvez consultercette édition…  END"}
{"prompt": "The irrational thing about trust ###", "completion":"The obvious and rational equation is that being trustworthy plus being transparent will lead you to be trusted. Verification of trustworthiness should lead to trust.This makes sense. Being trustworthy (acting in a way that's worthy of trust) plus being transparent so that people can see your trustworthiness—this should be sufficient.How then, do we explain that brands like Coke and Google are trusted? The recipe is secret, the algorithm is secret, and competitors like DuckDuckGo certainly act in a more trustworthy way.In fact, trust often comes from somethingvery different. It's mostly about symbols, expectations and mystery.Consider the relationship you might enter intoif you need surgery. You trust this woman to cut you open, you're putting your life in her hands… without the transparency of seeing all of her surgical statistics, interviewing all previous patients, evaluating her board scores.Instead, we leap into surgery on the basis of the recommendation from one doctor, on how the office feels, on a few minutes of bedside manner. We walk away from surgery because of a surly receptionist, or a cold demeanor.The same is true for just about all the food we eat. Not only don't we visit the slaughterhouse or the restaurant kitchen, we make an effort to avoidimagining thattheyeven exist.In most commercial and organizational engagements, trust is something we want and something we seek out, but we use the most basic semiotics and personal interactions to choose where to place our trust. And once the trust is broken, there's almost no amount of transparency that will help us change our mind.This is trust from ten thousand years ago, a hangover from a far less complex age when statistical data hadn'tbeen conceived of, when unearthing history was unheard of. But that's now hard-wired into how we judge and are judged.Quick test: Consider how much you trust Trump, or Clinton, Cruz or Sanders, Scalia or RBG. Is that trust based on transparency? On a rational analysis of public statements and private acts? Or is it more hunch-filled than that? What are the signals and tropes you rely on? Tone of voice? Posture? Appearance? Would more transparency change your mind about someone you trust? What about someone you don't? (Here's a fascinating story on that topic, reconstructed andrevealed).It turns out that we grab trust when we need it, and that rebuilding trust after it's been torn is really quite difficult. Because our expectations (which weren't based on actual data) were shown to be false.Real trust (even in our modern culture) doesn't always come from divulging, from providing more transparency, but from the actions that people take (or that we think they take) before our eyes. It comes from people who show up before they have to, who help us when they think no one is watching. It comes from people and organizations that play a role that we need them to play.We trust people based on the hints they give us in their vocal tones, in the stands they take on irrelevant points of view and yes, on what others think.Mostly, people like us trust people like us.The mystery that exists in situations without full transparency actually amplifies those feelings.I'm worried about two real problems, eachworse than the other:a. The trustworthy person or organization that fails to understand or take action on the symbols and mysteries that actually lead to trust, and as a result, fails to make the impact they are capable of.b. The immoral person or organization who realizes that it's possible to be trusted without actually doing the hard work of being trustworthy.We may very well be moving toward a world where data is the dominant way we choose to make decisions about trust. In the meantime, the symbols and signalsthat mesh with our irrational worldviews continue to drive our thinking.  END"}
{"prompt": "Instead ###", "completion":"What would have happened if you and your organization, instead of working on today's crisis, built something worthwhile for tomorrow?What would have been discussed instead?What would have been designed instead?The urgency of the day feels like an appropriate reason to step away from the important thing we might have been doing instead.Weeks or months later, we don't even remember what that urgent thing was. All we have to show for it is the thing we didn't build.  END"}
{"prompt": "Intuition ###", "completion":"That's what people call successful decision making that happens without a narrative.Intuition isn't guessing. It's sophisticated pattern matching, honed over time.Don't dismiss intuition merely because it's difficult to understand.You can get better at it by practicing.  END"}
{"prompt": "When creativity becomes a profession… ###", "completion":"It often stops being creative.Ad agencies are some of the most conservative organizations you'll encounter. They've been so trained by fearful clients, they censor themselves regularly.Successful authors are pushed by concerned publishers to become more true to their genres.And the movie industry… well, it's an industry first.This is why so many bestsellers are surprise bestsellers. In the words of William Goldman, no one knows anything. But, even though they don't know, the industrial protocol demands that they act like they do. Shareholders hesitate to give bonuses to CEOs who say, I don't know, let's try it.If you want to be creative, truly creative, it might pay to avoid a job with the word 'creative' in it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Worth thinking about ###", "completion":"That's one of the most important lists you can have. The list of things worth thinking about.We live inthe age of information surplus, when there are answers and shortcuts and highlights and notes and summaries for everything. But not nearly enough time to even be aware of them.The key question isn't, what's the answer?The key question is, what's the question?Is this area worth thinking about?Should I maintain the status quo?Is this good enough?Your focus is the heart of your organization's future. Your attention is irreplaceable.The real question, then, is, how much time are you spending deciding what to spend time on?  END"}
{"prompt": "The thing about wolf! ###", "completion":"…The little boy cried wolf, and the villagers didn't come.But the media often does.When bad things don't happen, we often forget about who cried wolf. And so they do it again.  END"}
{"prompt": "Managing the very small business ###", "completion":"How do you find, lead and manage employees in a tiny business (two to nine people)?This is an organization that's bigger than a solo operation, but it almost certainly involves everyone reporting to the boss.Consider three options:A team of equals: This is an organization staffed with people who have particular skills, skills that you don't have. This is the Beatles. Or a three-person design firm in which each person is more skilled than the others in a specialty.These organizations will never get big, and that's fine. They are cooperatives of artisans, and two things have to happen for them to work. First, team members have to be truly gifted, as the entire enterprise depends on the unique qualities of each individual. That means that hiring and ongoing improvement are essential. Second, the 'boss' has to be a coordinator, not an iron-fisted dictator.The pitfall: Sometimes talented equals forget that the key to their job is coordination, which often means letting someone else lead. And sometimes talented people come to believe that being a prima donna makes one more talented.Fellow travelers: This is a group of people with similar goals, approaches and perceptions. As a result, the boss can say, use your best judgment and the right thing happens. This group is led more than managed. The good news is that it's possible to train people to see and to care.The pitfall: this isn't fast, easy or cheap. Businesses often fail to spend the time and money to recruit, hire and train fellow travelers, instead, hiring what they can and then being disappointed when they try to lead.Industrialized employees: These are cogs in the system, people who want to be told what to do, who are hired and trained to obey. These are jobs that get outsourced or people who work cheap. This team needs a manager, a manager patient enough to instruct, teach and measure.The pitfall: Sometimes the boss is also busy getting new business, inventing new products and generally engaged outside the organization. As a result, he is hoping that he's the leader of fellow travelers, but of course he never built that organization, so he's disappointed, over and over.  END"}
{"prompt": "Prep, spec, fit and finish ###", "completion":"In some settings, more than 90% of the time and effort invested isn't in the actual 'work', but in getting setting up, debugging and then polishing the work. Heart surgery, for example, might take five hours to perform, but the actual procedure might only take thirty minutes.A piece of code might take a few hours to create, but days or weeks to be specced, reviewed, tested and then ready for the public.Dinner at a fine restaurant is mostly cleaning, chopping, mise en place and service, not the part we see on the plate itself.And yet…We often get confused about which part is important, which is worth our time, which is the point of the exercise. Without a doubt, if the thing we built isn't of high quality, don't bother. But it turns out that all the other parts, the parts that we think might be beneath us, it's those that matter the most.When in doubt, spend half as much time as you expect on the thing that most people do, and far more time on the spec, on the quality control, on the soft stuff, the stuff that actually matters.  END"}
{"prompt": "The realest thing in our lives ###", "completion":"Are the stories we invent.We live with these stories, we remind ourselves of them, we perfect them.And, happily, if you don't like the story you're telling yourself, you can change it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Considering the nocebo ###", "completion":"The letter to the co-op boardsounds likely enough. The tenant is up in arms because air fresheners and other common household odors are seeping into the writer's apartment, giving himsevere migraines. What to do about this chemical onslaught?There's no doubt that these odors are giving the letter writer a debilitating headache, but also little doubt that there isn't a likely double-blind, testable, organic chemistry cause to the headache only in this setting.The migraine in this case, like many things that bother us, is caused by a nocebo.A nocebo is a placebo that makes things worse.In this case, the lack of control over hishome, the unwelcome and unasked for odors, are making himfeel trapped, and thus annoyed, and angry, and sotheylead to a headache. It's pretty clear to most of us that if that very same bundle of molecules wafted in the door when the clever and happy grandson came to visit, there would be no problem.Of course the nocebo is real. And eliminating it is a great way to improve your life or the lives of your customers.The TSA intentionally brings a nocebo to the airport, stressing out innocent travelers. And schools know precisely how to raise the blood pressure of stressed out students. In many situations, loud noises, uncomfortable seats, moments of lost control… these create actual physical discomfort.We can use the nocebo to give you a headache, a backache, or even a chronic degenerative disease…But you don't remove the nocebowith medical tests. You remove it with a better story, with a situation that makes us feel powerful and in control, with a setting and a narrative that gives us agency and dignity.[I'm not asserting that all migraines are caused by nocebos. Far from it. I apologize to anyone who got that impression. But there's plenty of evidence that there are very real problems caused by nocebos.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Time for a new model? ###", "completion":"Human beings are prediction machines. Successful humans skate to where the puck is going to be, predict what's going to happen next, have an inkling of what's to come.We do this by creating models. A really good model is a theory, a testable method for asserting what's going to happen next under certain conditions–and being right.The pundits have models, of course. In writing about this one, the Times admits that they've been consistently wrong–in both directions–with their predictions. But rather than acknowledging that they have a broken model, they persist.The thing is, when your model doesn't match reality (when you have trouble predicting how your investments will do, whether a sales call will resonate, whether a presentation will work, whether a new hire will work out) it's tempting to blame reality.Consider that it might be much more effective to get a better model instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Big questions before little ones ###", "completion":"Don't finalize the logo before you come up with a business plan that works.Don't spend a lot of time thinking about your vacation policy before you have a product that people actually want to buy.There are endless small details to get right before you have something that you're truly proud of. No doubt about it. But there are frightening and huge holes in any bridgeto the future, and until you figure out how to get across, I'm not sure it matters if you have a typo on page 4.Hiding takes many forms. Inappropriate attention to detail is a big one, because it feels like a responsible thing to do.By all means, get it right. Get it right the first time.Successful makers of change embrace the hierarchy of importance, though, and refuse to engage with a fight about right when it's vitally important to focus on important instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Short order cooks rarely make change happen ###", "completion":"How far in the future does your agenda extend?One way to tell: of the things you worked on last week, how many were due last week?The marketplace has always tempted us with short-term cycles (they require less trust) and the internet amplifies this temptation to buy fast, sell fast, work fast, measure fast, move on.But the work that leads to change is rarely written on an order slip or an RFP. Selling to the next buyer is easier than changing the culture, but easier isn't always the point.  END"}
{"prompt": "The train is coming ###", "completion":"It's fun to believe that people buy the goods and services we make merely because they are excited, delighted and eager to engage.But often, particularly in b2b selling, the call to action is very different. Get off the tracks! The train is coming… combined with the rumble, the smoke and the visuals of the train arriving. That's what causes action.Action means change and change means fear, so of course we shouldn't be surprised that people (and organizations) are often as motivated by the fear of loss as they are by the desire for gain.  END"}
{"prompt": "Hacking reciprocity ###", "completion":"We're wired to return the favor. When someone opens a door for us, our instinct is to hold the next door for them.This generous response has led some marketers to aggressively take advantage. They do a favor for someone and then reap the benefits when the favor is returned. All under the guise of, I'm helping other people.Helping other people is not what they'redoing.What they'redoing is hacking reciprocity as a tool to help themget what theywant. They'retrading favors.Some people have had success with this, but please don’t denigrate the very human activity of actually helping others by conflating it with trading favors.If you want to help other people, go help them. Without regard for credit or for what you get in return.  END"}
{"prompt": "I agree in principle… ###", "completion":"But in practice, I'll need to be more hard-hearted, practical, selfish, mass-oriented, short-term, callous… Principles, it seems, are for other people.Because business is business.Because my boss won't let me.Because he'll never get elected.Because we've never done it that way.Because the buyer will never take it for the store.Because it's too risky.Because I'm under a lot of pressure.Because I'm afraid.Principle, of course, is for us, not only for other people. One of the great privileges of not living on the edge of disaster is that we have the ability to act on our principles.The hard part is realizing that it's never the edge of disaster, and that the long run is always shorter than we imagine.  END"}
{"prompt": "The fundamental mismatch error ###", "completion":"It's me, not you.vs.It's you, not me.What happens when you're unable to serve a customer well, or engage with an employee, or work with a partner?One instinct is to blame the other person, that your art doesn't match their expectations, and they ought to change, or leave.And the other is to put the blame on oneself, to state that, it's up to meto change to make them happy.Either might be true.For some people, that's hard to swallow, but it's true.If you're not getting what you seek from the work you do, it could be because your instinct is to go too far in one direction, a beliefthat doesn't help you very much.Blame too many other people and you become a lonely diva, bitter and alone.Blame yourself too often and you become a wishy-washy panderer to the masses.Mismatches have to happen. The opportunity is in dealing with them in a way that leads you (and your publics) to the place you want to go.  END"}
{"prompt": "When will you get to Ramsgate? ###", "completion":"Before Van Gogh was Van Gogh, he painted some pictures of streets in Ramsgate, a village in the UK. What if he had stopped, saying, This isn't good enough, it's a failure, I'm never going to amount to anything?Nobody, ever once, pops to the top. You walk there. Step by step, each a failure until it's not.If you're not yet at Ramsgate, you've got some walking to do. And then, when you get to Ramsgate, more walking.[Inspiringvideo on this topic.]  END"}
{"prompt": "What are you competing on? ###", "completion":"It's pretty easy to figure out what you're competing for—attention, a new gig, a promotion, a sale…But what is your edge? In a hypercompetitive world, whatever you're competing on is going to become your focus.If you're competing on price, you'll spend most of your time counting pennies.If you're competing on noise, you'll spend most of your time yelling, posting, updating, publishing and announcing.If you're competing on trust, you'll spend most of your time keeping the promisesthat make you trustworthy.If you're competing on smarts, you'll spend most of your time getting smarter.If you're competing on who you know, you'll spend most of the time networking.If you're competing by having true fans, you'll spend most of your time earning the trust and attention of those that care about your work.If you're competing on credentials, you'll spend most of your time getting more accredited and certified.If you're competing on perfect, you'll need to spend your time on picking nits.If you're competing by hustling, you'll spend most of your time looking for shortcuts and cutting corners.If you're competing on getting picked, you'll spend most of your day auditioning.If you're competing on being innovative, you'll spend your time being curious and shipping things that might not work.If you're competing on generosity, you'll look for ever more ways to be generous with your time, your insights and your work.And if you're competing on always-on responsiveness, you'll spend your time glued to your work, responding just a second faster than the other guy.In any competitive market, be prepared to investyour heart and soul and focus on the thing you compete on. Might as well choose something you can live with, a practicethat allows you to thrive.  END"}
{"prompt": "Errors in scale ###", "completion":"A restaurant that's too small for its following creates pent-up demand and can thrive as it lays plans to expand.A restaurant that's too big merely fails.There are occasional counterexamples of ventures that fail because they weretoo small when they gained customer traction. But not many.It pays to have big dreams but low overhead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your money and your future ###", "completion":"Your money: Almost no one knows how to think about money and investing. Squadrons of people will try to confuse you and rip you off. Many will bore you. But Andrew Tobias has written a book that might just change your net worth.His advice is simple: spending less is even more valuable than earning more. He is also a gifted writer, funny and dead on correct in his analysis. Highly recommended.The brand new edition is right here.Back story: 32 years ago this month, I had lunch with Andy Tobias. I was pitching him on a partnership, and the meeting had been difficult to get. I was intimidated and soaking wet from running fifty blocks through Manhattan (no Uber!). As I sat in the New York Athletic Club, my cheap suit dripping wet (you can't take off your jacket at the New York Athletic Club), I tried to break the ice by telling the moose joke.I told it pretty well, but Andy didn't crack a smile. Even then, he was a canny negotiator. We never ended up working together, but his book probably did me more good than the project would have. And the story was priceless.Your future: Kevin Kelly is the most erudite, original and prophetic futurist of our time. If you've ever picked up a copy of Wired, he's had an impact on your life.If you hope to be working, producing value or merely alive in ten years, his new book (out in June) is essential. It might take you an hour or two to read certain pages—if you're smart enough to take notes and brainstorm as you go.The people who read his previous book about the future (New Rules) in 1998 are truly grateful for the decade-long head start it gave them.I've never had the nerve to tell Kevin a joke, but I did offer to do a magic trickfor him.It's rare that you can spend $33 on two books and have your life so profoundly altered.PS new Creative Mornings podcast just up with my talk from a few years ago.Backwards: Great designers don't get great clients, it's the other way around.Patience is for the impatient.Leading up ismore powerful than the alternative.…And a few more provocations. I only gave this talk once, I hope you enjoy it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Closing the gate ###", "completion":"Sooner or later, tribes begin to exclude interested but unaffiliated newcomers.It happens to religious sects, to surfers and to online communities as well. Nascent groups with open arms become mature groups too set in their ways to evangelize and grow their membership, too stuck to engage, changeand thrive.So much easier to turn someone away than it is to patiently engage with them, the way you were welcomed when you were in their shoes.There are two reasons for this: It's tiresome and boring to keep breaking in newbies. Eternal September, the never-ending stream of repetitive questions and mistakes can wear out even the most committed host. Your IT person wasn't born grouchy–it just happens.It's threatening to the existing power structure. New voices want new procedures and fresh leadership. And so, Wikipedia has transformed itself into a club that's not particularly interested in welcoming new editors.And the social club down the street has a membership with an average age of 77.Andcompanies that used to grow by absorbing talent via acquisitions, cease to do so.This cycle isn't inevitable, but it takes ever more effort to overcome our inertia.Even if it happens gradually, the choice to not fight this inertia is still a choice. And whileclosing the gate can ensure stability and the status quo (for now), itrarely leads to growth, and ultimately leads to decline.[Some questions to ponder…]Do outsiders get the benefit of the doubt?Do we make it easy for outsiders to become insiders?Is there a clear and well-lit path to do so?When we tell someone new, that not how we do things around here, do we also encourage them to learn the other way and to try again?Are we even capable of explaining the status quo, or is the way we do things set merely because we forgot that we could do it better?Is a day without emotional or organizational growth a good day?  END"}
{"prompt": "Transformation tourism ###", "completion":"I bought the diet book, but ate my usual foods.I filled the prescription, but didn't take the meds.I took the course… well, I watched the videos… but I didn't do the exercises in writing.Merely looking at something almost never causes change. Tourism is fun, but rarely transformative.If it was easy, you would havealready achieved the change you seek.Change comes from new habits, from acting as if, from experiencing the inevitable discomfort of becoming.  END"}
{"prompt": "Just a little more ###", "completion":"It's often about asking, not about what's needed.Years ago, when I lived in California, I'd go to the grocery store nearly every day. I usually paid by check. Each time, the clerk would ask me for my phone number and then write it on the check.When I ran out of checks, I decided to be clever and had my phone number printed on them. You guessed it, without missing a beat, that same clerk started asking me for my driver's license number (and yes, I did it one more time, and we moved on to my social security number).The information wasn't the point. It was the asking, the time taken to look closely at the document.It's tempting to listen to our customers (why aren't there warm nuts in first class?) and then add the features they request. But often, you'll find that these very same customers are asking for something else. Maybe they don't actually want a discount, just the knowledge that they tried to get one.What's really happening here is that people are seeking the edges, trying to find something that gets a reaction, a point of failure, proof that your patience, your largesse or your menu isn't infinite. Get patient with your toddler, and you might discover your toddler starts to seek a new way to get your attention. Give that investigating committee what they're asking, and they'll ask for something else.They're not looking for one more thing, they're looking for a 'no', for acknowledgment that they reached the edge. That's precisely what they're seeking, and you're quite able to offer them that edge of finiteness.Sometimes, no, I'm sorry, we can't do that, is a feature.  END"}
{"prompt": "Perfect; could be better ###", "completion":"When we run a new sessionof the altMBA, we ask each student to write a short bio and submit a picture.A week later, we share the nicely laid out PDF withthe extraordinary class that has been assembled and then give people a week to update their bio for mistakes, etc.Inevitably, the bios (and the photos) get better. A lot better.It's not because people didn't try the first time. It's because being surrounded by people on the same journey as you causes you to level up.Your pathforwardis pretty simple: Decide on your journey and find some people who will cause you to level up.There are only two sessions left in 2016 for the altMBA, then we're done for the year. Check out thenew application here.If you're curious as to what we teach, here is some feedback from our alumni:altMBA helped remind me that you are never too busy to do work that truly matters. Clarissa Finks, altMBA3, Burton SnowboardsThe altMBA taught me that there is no limit on empathy, or its positive and powerful application in business. Matt Hill, altMBA3, National Parks at NightBefore the altMBA, I thought I was alone and that I needed other people’s help to succeed. After the altMBA, I know that I am not alone and that the right people will succeed with me. Thejus Chakravarthy, altMBA4, KorinThe altMBA taught me that it ismy turn to speak up about things that matter, that changing the world canstart with me. Heatherlee Nguyen, altMBA3, Optum (UnitedHealth Group)The altMBA taught me that fear is not an excuse, and helped me learn how to silence my lizard brain. I am more confident, lighter, and confident in my ability to create the change in the world that I want to see. I was a dreamer, now I am a doer. Alexa Rohn, AltMBA4, alexarohn.comaltMBA taught me that every decision, be it to ship, to sell, to connect or to understand another is rooted in emotion. The more you understand those emotions the better your product, pitch, friendship and leadership will resonate.  Alicia Johnson, altMBA4, City of San Francisco Emergency ManagementThe altMBA taught me that opportunity is a decision and it’s mine to make. Derek W. Martin, altMBA1, tubaaltMBA taught me the value of real and thought-out feedback. Cory Boehs, altMBA1, Kool Foam(Links for affiliation only).  END"}
{"prompt": "The tidal wave is overrated ###", "completion":"Yes, it can lead to wholesale destruction, but it's the incessant (but much smaller) daily tidal force that moves all boats, worldwide.And far more powerful than either is the incredible impact of seepage, of moisture, of the liquid that makes things grow.Facebook and other legendary companies didn't get that way all at once, and neither will you.We can definitely spend time worrying about/building the tsunami, but it's the drip, drip, drip that will change everything in the long run.  END"}
{"prompt": "The other kind of power move ###", "completion":"In the common vernacular, a power move is something that gets done to you.The person with power demands an accommodation, or switches the venue, or has an admin call you instead of calling you himself. Someone with a resource who makes you jump a little higher before he shares it…Little diva-like gestures to reinforce who has the upper hand.But what about moves that are based on connection, or generosity, or kindness?Those take real power.  END"}
{"prompt": "Supply and demand ###", "completion":"Just because you have a supply (a skill, an inventory, a location) that doesn't necessarily mean you are entitled to demand.The market decides what it wants. You can do your best to influence that choice, but it's never (alas) based on what you happen to already have.There's a reason that garage sale prices tend to be pretty low.We can get pretty self-involved on supply, forgetting that nothing works without demand.  END"}
{"prompt": "Turning paradoxes into problems ###", "completion":"A problemis open to a solution. That what makes it a problem.A paradox, on the other hand, is gated by boundaries that make a solution impossible.If you've been working on a situation, chewing on it, throwing everything you've got at it, it might not be a problem atall. You may have invented a paradox, creating so many limits that you'll never get anywhere.It makes no sense to work on a paradox. Drop it and move on. Even better, figure out which boundaries to remove and turn it into a problem instead.Two examples: Building a worldwide limo fleet is impossible, a paradox that requires too much money and too much time–by the time you raised enough money and hired enough supervisors, you'd never be able to charge enough to earn it back. But once you ease the boundary of, if you own a transport service, you must own the cars and hire the drivers, the idea of building a network is merely a problem.Another more general one: Making significant forward motion without offending anyone or exposing yourself to fear is a paradox. But once you're willing to relax those boundaries, it becomes a problem, one with side effects you're willing to live with…  END"}
{"prompt": "Wasting our technology surplus ###", "completion":"When someone handed you a calculator for the first time, it meant that long division was never going to be required of you ever again. A huge savings in time, a decrease in the cognitive load of decision making.Now what?You can use that surplus to play video games and hang out.Or you can use that surplus to go learn how to do something that can't be done by someone merely because she has a calculator.Either way, your career as a long-divisionator was over.Entire professions and industries are disrupted by the free work and shortcuts that are produced by the connection economy, by access to information, by robots. Significant parts of your job are almost certainly among them.Now that we can get what you used to do really quickly and cheaply from someone else, you can either insist that you still get to do that for us at the same fee you used to charge, or you can move up the ladder and do something we can't do without you.  END"}
{"prompt": "The possibility of optimism (the optimism of possibility) ###", "completion":"Is the glass half full or half empty?The pessimist sees what's present today and can only imagine eventual decline. The glass is already half empty and it's only going to get worse.The optimist understands that there's a difference between today and tomorrow. The glass is half full, with room for more. The vision is based on possibility, the future tense, not the present one.Pessimists have trouble making room for possibility, and thus possibility has trouble finding room for pessimists.As soon as we realize that there is a difference between right now and what might happen next, we can move ourselves to the posture of possibility, to the self-fulfilling engine of optimism.  END"}
{"prompt": "Problems ###", "completion":"Avoiding a problem with foresight and good design is a cheap, highly leveraged way to do your work.Extinguishing a problem before it gets expensive and difficult is almost as good, and far better than paying a premium when there's an emergency.Fretting about an impending problem, worrying about it, imagining the implications of it… all of this is worthless.The magic of slack (a little extra time in the chain, a few extra dollars in the bank) is that it gives you the resources to stop and avoid a problem or fix it when it's small. The over-optimized organization misunderstands the value of slack, so it always waits until something is a screaming emergency, because it doesn't think it has a moment to spare. Expensive.Action is almost always cheaper now than it is later.  END"}
{"prompt": "The originality paradox ###", "completion":"There are a billion people trying to do something important for the first time. These people are connected by the net, posting, creating, daring to leapfirst.It's hard, because the number of people racing with you to be original is huge.The numbers are so daunting that the chances that you will create something that resonates, spreads and changes the culture are really close to zero.But it's also certain that someone will. In fact, there's a 100% chance that someone will step up with an action or a concept so daring that it resonates with us.Nearly zero and certain. At the same time.Pick your odds, decide what you care about and act accordingly.  END"}
{"prompt": "Beware the gulf of disapproval ###", "completion":"As your new idea spreads, most people who hear about it will dislike it. Start at the left. Your new idea, your proposal to the company, your new venture, your innovation—no one knows about it.As you begin to promote it, most of the people (the red line) who hear about it don’t get it. They think it’s a risky scheme, a solution to a problem no one has or that it’s too expensive. Or some combination of the three.And this is where it would stop, except for the few people on the blue line. These are the early adopters, the believers, and some of them are sneezers. They tell everyone they can about your new idea.Here’s the dangerous moment. If you’re keeping track of all the people who hate what you’ve done, you’ll give up right here and right now. This is when the gulf of disapproval is at its maximum. This happened to the telephone, to the web, to rap music… lots of people have heard of it, but the number of new fans (the blue line) is far smaller than the number of well-meaning (but in this case, wrong) people on the red line.Sometimes, if you persist, the value created for the folks on the blue line begins to compound. And so your fans persist and one by one, convert some of the disapproving. Person by person, they shift from being skeptics to accepting the new status quo.When the gulf of disapproval comes, don’t trackthe red line. Count on the blue one instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Pretty, cheap and well-rounded (three misunderstandings) ###", "completion":"It's easy to fall into the trap of thinking you need to be prettier if you want to be an actor or actress. It turns out, though, thatmost important thespians aren't conventionally pretty (Marlon Brando, Julia Roberts, Angelina Jolie, Geena Davis, Morgan Freeman…)It's easy for a retailer or a freelancer to believe that the best way to succeed is to be cheap. But just about every important brand (and every successful freelancer) didn't get that way by being the cheapest.And anyone who has been through high school has been reminded how important it is to be well-rounded. But Nobel Prize winners, successful NGO founders and just about everyone you admire didn't get that way by being mediocre at a lot of things.Pretty, cheap and well-rounded are seductive ways to hide out in a crowd. But they're not the path to doing work that matters.  END"}
{"prompt": "Transitions ###", "completion":"Coming and going matter far more than what happens in the middle.Opening things.Closing them.Tearing off the bandage.Losing something.Meeting someone new.Getting on the airplane, getting off of it.Being greeted.Elections.Ending a feud.We mistakenly spend most of our time thinking about, working on and measuring the in-between parts, imagining that this is the meat of it, the important work. In fact, humans remember the transitions, because it's moments of change and possibility and trepidation that light us up.  END"}
{"prompt": "There is more than one solution to your problem (and your problem is real) ###", "completion":"Challenge one: Believing that the solution you've got (the person you want to hire, the strategy you want to implement, the decision you want to make) is the one and only way to make the problem go away or take advantage of the opportunity.Falling in love with your solution makes it incredibly difficult to see its flaws, to negotiate with people who don't agree with you, to find an even better solution.And, on the other side of the table…Challenge two: When you find someone who is pitchinga solution you don't like, it's tempting to deny that there's much of a problem at all. After all, if you diminish the problem, you won't have to accept the solution that's on the table.But of course, the problem is real. The dissatisfaction or inefficiency or wrong direction isn't going to go away merely because we deny it.It's amazing how much we can get done when we agree to get something done.  END"}
{"prompt": "Breakpoints ###", "completion":"A neighbor recently put in some new sidewalk. As usual, the workman interrupted the unbroken swath of perfect concrete with lines every three feet.What are the lines for?Well, the ground shifts. When it does, perfect concrete cracks in unpredictable ways, often ruining the entire job. When you put the breakpoints in on purpose, though, the concrete has a chance to absorb the shifts, to degrade effectively.This is something we often miss in design and in the creation of customer experiences. We're so optimistic we forget to put in the breakpoints.There's no doubt the ground will shift. The question is: when it does, will you be ready?  END"}
{"prompt": "More than ten is too many ###", "completion":"Human beings suffer from scope insensitivity.Time and again, we're unable to put more urgency or more value on choices that have more impact. We don't donate ten times as much to a charity that's serving 10 times (or even 100 times) more people. We don't prioritize our interest or our urgency based on scale, we do it based on noise.And yet, too often, we resort to a narrative about big numbers.It doesn't matter that there are more than 6,000 posts on this blog. It could be 600 or 60. It won't change what you read next.It doesn't matter if a libraryhas a million books instead of a hundred thousand.It doesn't matter how many people live without electricity.Of course it matters. What I meant to say is that when you're about to make a decision of scale, right here and right now, if the number is more than ten, the scope of the opportunity or problem will almost certainly be underestimated.  END"}
{"prompt": "Chump (Don’t get played) ###", "completion":"How did Bernie Madoff do it? How did he steal twenty billion dollars from people who should have known better? It doesn't matter if you went to university or not–you can stillbe played as a chump.To pull off a significant deception, you generally need two things: A deceiver and a crowd of people open to being deceived.Once those are present, the deceiver brings out the big lie.For lots of reasons, people are open to looking for shortcuts and a new reality, even if no shortcuts are available. They may have been mistreated, might be struggling, or they may merely be greedy, looking to outdo the other guy. In the case of Madoff, he was even able to take in charities, with boards that meant well but were in a hurry to scale.Frustration in the face of the way things are makes us open to the big lie. Frustration and fear and anger can suspend our ability to ask difficult questions, to listen to thoughtful critics, to do our homework.And the big lie is always present when we get played. To be a chump (not merely the victim) is to be open to the big lie. Not merely open to it, eager to buy into it.Numbers make it easy to tell a big lie. People hate numbers, and they seem so real.Anti-intellectualism, disregard for the scientific method and conspiracy theories also set the stage for a big lie.And demonizing the other, the one who is already held in low esteem or feared by the chump, this is usually part of the big lie as well.In retrospect, the warning signs around Madoff were obvious. Just about any skeptical, thoughtful investor could have seen through the big lie if he wasn't so busy being a chump.When a population gets played, the responsibility lies with the liar, with the con man, with the person so craven that they'll trade trust and productivity and a bit of civilization for some power and authority.But the chump also has to take responsibility. Responsibility for looking for the shortcut, giving into the fear and for eagerly believing the big lie, ignoring the clues that are all around.Chumps aren't restricted by nationality, by education, by income. Chump is an attitude and a choice.We're not chumps. Not if we don't chooseto be.  END"}
{"prompt": "A dollar more (vs. a dollar less) ###", "completion":"Consider arace to the top.How can Lyft possibly compete with Uber? Scale is often the secret to a commodity business, and if Lyft races to be ever cheaper than Uber, the only possible outcome doesn’t look good. It’s a cutthroat corner-cutting race.But what happens if Lyft (or your project) decides to race to the top instead?What if they say, we’re always a dollar more than Uber?And then they spend that dollar, all of it, on the drivers…What kind of person buys the cheap ride, the ride with the stressed-out angry drivers?So instead of drivers abandoning fares they accept (they’re under so much pressure to make ends meet, Uber drivers do this all the time–it happened to me four times in one weekend), you end up with drivers that were good enough to be able to charge an extra dollar…Uber becomes the bottom fisher, and Lyft (or whatever it is you do) is the place you go once you’ve proven yourself…And what would happen if your fast food place said, we’re the place that charges you a dollar extra at lunch, and they spent all that dollar in paying their employees and their suppliers a living wage?Some people will always want the cheapest, regardless of what it actually ends up costing them. But in market after market,the list goes on. Projects and organizations that proudly charge a dollar more.Not merelya dollar more.A dollar more, and worth it.  END"}
{"prompt": "The benefit of the doubt ###", "completion":"Doubt is corrosive.Someone faced with doubt rarely brings her best self to the table. Doubt undermines confidence, it casts aspersions, it assumes untruths.Yes, of course you need to qualify your leads. And yes, we know that you need to protect against risk and to not waste your time.But… if you're going to spend five minutes or five hours with someone, what happens if you begin with, the benefit of confidence instead? What if you begin by believing, by seeking to understand, by rooting for the other person to share their best stories, their vision and their hopes?Perhaps you can manipulate someone by scowling, by negging, by putting on airs. But if you do that, you end up with people who have been manipulated, who are wounded and not ready to soar.The problem with qualifying leads is that all the obvious ones are already taken.The challenge with assuming that someone is completely imperfect is that you'll almost certainly be right.There's plenty of room for doubt later, isn't there?  END"}
{"prompt": "Don’t tug on capes, share them ###", "completion":"Shannon Weber decided that there wasn't enough love, recognition or connection in her world, so she did something about it. When she finds an unsung (don't say 'ordinary' hero) she makes them a cape.Caping people, catching them doing something right, shining a light on a familiar hero.It turns out that this is way more difficult than being cynical, or ironic, or bitter. Being closed is a lot easier than being connected. It takes guts.What kind of impact does one act of kindness make? It can last for years.Go, cape someone.  END"}
{"prompt": "Uninformed dissent ###", "completion":"I’m not sure what it is, but I’m against it.It’s a mistake to believe that people know all the facts before they decide.In fact, most of the time, we decide and then figure out if we need to get some facts to justify our instinct.There are two common causes of uninformed dissent:The first is a person who fears change, or is quite happy with the status quo. He doesn’t have to read your report or do the math or listen to the experts, because the question is, change and his answer is, no.The second (quite common in a political situation), is the tribal imperative that people like us do things like this.No need to do the science, or understand the consequences or ask hard questions. Instead, focus on the emotional/cultural elements and think about the facts later.  END"}
{"prompt": "Not enough ‘if’ or not enough ‘then’? ###", "completion":"All change involves an if/then promise.If you want a delicious dinner, then try this new restaurant.If you want to be seen as a hunk, drive this Ferrari.If you want to avoid being dead, have this surgery.If people aren't taking you up on your offer, there are two possible reasons: Not enough if. Maybe the person doesn't want the thing you're promising as much as you need them to. Maybe they don't care enough, won't pay enough, just don't want that sort of change.Not enough then. More common is that we want the if, but we don't believe your then. It's easy to claim you're going to deliver the then, but that doesn't mean you have credibility. When in doubt, addmore if.And definitely more then.  END"}
{"prompt": "The problem with complaining about the system ###", "completion":"…is that the system can’t hear you. Only people can.And the problem is that people in the system are too often swayed to believe that they have no power over the system, that they are merely victims of it, pawns, cogs in a machine bigger than themselves.Alas, when the system can’t hear you, and those who can believe they have no power, nothing improves.Systems don’t mistreat us, misrepresent us, waste our resources, govern poorly, support an unfair status quo and generally screw things up–people do.If we care enough, we can make it change.  END"}
{"prompt": "Taking notes vs. taking belief ###", "completion":"Is there anything easier than listening to a lecture or reading a book and taking notes?And is there anything more difficult than setting aside our preconceptions and the resistance and acting 'as if', being open to belief, at least for a moment?If taking notes is making it easier for you to postpone (or avoid) the possibility of belief, better to put down the pencil and focus.Facts are easy to come by. Finding a new way to think and a new confidence in our choices is difficult indeed.  END"}
{"prompt": "Bigger for? ###", "completion":"Is bigger better for the investor or is it better for the customer?At a huge hotel in Nashville (more than 1,000 rooms), there's always a long line at the check in desk, the gym is full at 5 in the morning and the staff has no clue who any guest is.It's clear that doubling the size of the hotel helped the owner make more money (for now). But it's worth taking a moment to think about whether bigger is the point.Maybe better is?  END"}
{"prompt": "So busy doing my job, I can’t get any work done ###", "completion":"Your job is an historical artifact. It's a list of tasks, procedures, alliances, responsibilities, to-dos, meetings (mostly meetings) that were layered in, one at a time, day after day, for years.And your job is a great place to hide.Because, after all, if you're doing your job, how can you fail? Get in trouble? Make a giant error?The work, on the other hand, is the thing you do that creates value. This value you create, the thing you do like no one else can do, is the real reason we need you to be here, with us.When you discover that the job is in the way of the work, considerchanging your job enough that you can go back to creating value.Anything less is hiding.  END"}
{"prompt": "Narratives keep the feeling going ###", "completion":"Our feelings (anger, shame, delight) appear almost instantly, and, left alone, they don’t last very long.But if we invent a narrative around an event or a person, we can keep the feeling going for a very long time.Pavlov (ring a bell?) helped us see that a dog could learn to associate one thing with another. Humans are way better than this than dogs.If you’re not happy with the feeling, try dropping the narrative. After all, it’s your narrative, the story you have to keep telling yourself again and again, that’s causing the feeling to return.  END"}
{"prompt": "Empathy is difficult ###", "completion":"If you believed what he believes, you’d do precisely what he’s doing.Think about that for a second. People act based on the way they see the world. Every single time.Understanding someone else’s story is hard, a job that’s never complete, but it’s worth the effort.  END"}
{"prompt": "Just because you’re right… ###", "completion":"You may be right, but that doesn’t mean that people will care. Or pay attention. Or take action.Just because you’re right, doesn’t mean they’re going to listen.It takes more than being right to earn attention and action.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your best shot ###", "completion":"Should you put all your best material up front?Later seems really far away. Now is far more urgent.But what if it's a marathon, not a sprint?A fast start is often overestimated. If you're truly capable of delivering world-class work later (as opposed to merely stalling), you might discover that in a world of quick hits, your ability to keep showing up with work that gets better and better is precisely what the market wants from you.The people who are swayed by the fast start and the shiny new thing aren't going to stick with you for very long, are they?Promises, kept.  END"}
{"prompt": "Profit and loss ###", "completion":"One of the easiest ways to build a positive personal P&L is to re-establish your monthly expensesat a dramatically lower level.If you cut your burn rate to the bone, you suddenly will find the freedom to say 'no' to work that drains you and doesn't build your reputation. And perhaps you can say goodbye to the stress that might be paralyzing you.Create like an optimist. Spend like a pessimist.  END"}
{"prompt": "In search of palliatives ###", "completion":"A palliative is a treatment that soothes even if it can't cure the illness.By all means, whenever you can, fix the problem, go to the root cause, come up with a better design…But when you can't (and that's most of the time, because the straightforward problems have already been solved), the effort you put into providing a palliative will not go unnoticed or unappreciated.  END"}
{"prompt": "What have we become? (And what are we becoming?) ###", "completion":"Every day, we change. We move (slowly) toward the person we'll end up being.Not just us, but our organizations. Our political systems. Our culture.Are you more generous than the you of five or ten years ago? More confident? More willing to explore?Have you become more brittle? Selfish? Afraid?Grumpy and bitter isn't a place we begin. It's a place we end up.Do weintentionally choose the optimistic path? Are weeagerly more open to change and possibility?Every day we make the hard decisions that build a culture, an organization, a life.Since yesterday, since last week, since you were twelve, have you been making deposits or withdrawals from the circles of supporters around you?People don't become selfish, hateful and afraid all at once. They do it gradually.When we see the dystopian worlds depicted in movies and books, are we closer tothose outcomes than a generation ago? Do we find ourselves taking actions that make our conversations more considered, ourarguments more informed, our engagements more civil? Or precisely the opposite, because it's easier?Your brand, your company, your community: it has so much, is it still playing the short game?When your great-grandfather arrives by time machine, what will you show him? What have you built, what are you building? When your great-grandchildren remember the choices we made, at a moment when we actually had a choice, what will they remember?We are always becoming, and we can always make the choice to start becoming something else, if we care.  END"}
{"prompt": "So simple it doesn’t need instructions ###", "completion":"Eager (and less-talented) designers often get confused about this instruction, turning it into: It doesn't have instructions, therefore it's simple.Consider ahotel shower. It has 11 things that might be dials, and five that actually are. The alert person, standing under cold water, at 5 in the morning, in a dark hotel room, will probably (???) realize that the bottom dial, all the way near the floor, is actually the one that controls the temperature.The lack of instructions doesn't make something simple.I used to write the manuals for the educational software we shipped in the mid 1980s. The goal was clear: write exactly enough that no one would call us on the phone.Today, of course, instructions are really cheap to provide. On a shower, all you need is a simple label. But just about anything else you produce ought to come with digital instructions, written or on video.Don't make us read your mind.[Yes, it's true, almost no one reads the instructions…people are so self-absorbed and hurried that they plunge first. One more reason to build something simple. But at least you can post instructions so that after they fail the first time, they have a shot at getting it right the second time.]PS if you truly care, list your phone number/email address on the instructions. Not an unattended mailbox. You.*(*the single best way to improve just about any communication…)Your designs (and your instructions) will get better faster.[I limit myself to just one post per year about how bad hotel showers are, fwiw. Mostly, they're a symptom of a significant lack of care in the face of the rush to make more stuff faster.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Managing the gap ###", "completion":"There's a space between where you are now and where you want to be, ought to be, are capable of being.A gap between your reality and your possibility.Imagine that space as a gulf or a chasm and you'll become paralyzed, stuck in the current situation.And refuse to see it at all and you'll merely be self-satisfied, and just as stuck.The magic of forward movement is seeing the space as leap-sized, as something that persistent, consistent effort can get you through.The most likely paths are the ones where you can see the steps.Your problem might not be that you're not trying hard enough. It might be that you're seeing the opportunity in the wrong way.  END"}
{"prompt": "You can not make a spoon that’s better than a spoon ###", "completion":"Umberto Eco said that when he was talking about the form of paper books.But I think it raises a challenge for just about anyone who seeks to do something truly great in the world of design (in any of its forms):Can you invent a thing for which no one will ever invent a better version of it?Certainly, Dylan has done that for dozens of his songs.And Frank Lloyd Wright did it with 'Falling Water'. No one will ever build a better version of it.But Like A Rolling Stone and Falling Water are specific instances of general ideas (songs and houses). Not quite the same as Eco had in mind.But you know what, that's probably worth aiming for regardless.Can you make the thing you make next to be spoonlike in its unimprovableness?  END"}
{"prompt": "Self-starters, needed ###", "completion":"The self starter creates a spark, turning nothing, or what certainly appears to everyone else as nothing, into something.The self starter doesn't see it that way. That 'nothingness' was actually an opportunity, a chance to make a connection, to do something a little better than the status quo, to get things moving.Has there ever been a project, an institution or a community that hasn't needed that?  END"}
{"prompt": "Big company advertising ###", "completion":"American Airlines doesn't know what to say.And they're having a lot of trouble saying it.They're making a fortune this year due to low oil prices, and one way to manage shareholder expectations for the future is to put some of that profit into brand advertising. And so, theyhired afancy ad agency and started to run full-page, two-sided, glossy inserts in newspapers. The single ad I'm looking at cost at least $100,000. And I might be one of a hundred people who are actually reading it.The copy-dense ad includesreferences to babies, red-eyes, noise, middle seats, lessons learned, 'relinquish', making the best of the situation and the ability to sleep anywhere. All told in an odd third-person, referring to the hero as they not you.With a layout that's so confusing that there's a big arrow that says start here.Some things worth remembering: Ads can still work, especially ads with consistent budgets, excellent copywriting, smart frequency and a thoughtful strategy. Easier said than done.Great products work far better than great ads do. And the key part of a great service-based product is service, which is totally up to you, the marketer.Direct marketing is measured, brand marketing is long-term and aspirational.Simple test for brand marketing: If I can substitute one company for another and have the ad still make sense, it's not a good ad. For thirty years, the airlines have relentlessly trained travelers to spend as little as possible on a seat, offering generic alternatives and contemptuous, confusing pricing policies. To blame the state of travel on the passenger (Let's move that conversation from us and turn it onto them… said Fernand Fernandez, VP of global marketing at AA) doesn't feel like the foundation for a great marketing campaign, does it?The lesson for anyone spending money on ads: it pays to be consistent, generous and thoughtful when you build an ad campaign.[Posted from LGA. /rant][For those that wanted to see the ad, here it is]  END"}
{"prompt": "Features and marginal cost in the digital age ###", "completion":"Good, better and best were the three price points.Organizations had an easy way to distinguish between their various products. Adding more features cost more money, and so the Cadillac cost more than the Chevy.Customers learned to associate more features with more expense with more luxury and exclusivity. And manufacturers were always on the lookout to add a feature that consumers valued more than the marginal cost of adding that feature.In the digital age, all of this thinking goes out the window.How much does it cost a car company to display the temperature outside? Well, it used to mean wiring a circuit, adding a sensor, creating a display. Now, it might cost them $1 (if that) to add that feature to a $40,000 car.Even more radically, the marginal cost of just about every feature on a website or an app is precisely zero. Program it once and you can give it to everyone. The 'good' version is merely the 'best' version with some software turned off, which is fine if you don't have any competition.Good, better, best is going to have to start being based on something else.  END"}
{"prompt": "Most projects end with a whimper ###", "completion":"That means you have a choice:Spend a lot of your time in whimpering moments.orBe prepared to blow things up, declare victory/failure, walk away—even if it feels easier in the moment to timidly and slowly fade away,whimpering.Prematurely giving up is a huge problem. A more draining problem is not knowing when to quit.  END"}
{"prompt": "Speed is relative ###", "completion":"If you moved to Norway or Haiti or Bolivia, you'd notice something immediately: People don't move at the same speed you do.The same thing is true about different organizations and different pockets of the internet. Or months of the year, for that matter.There's not an absolute speed, a correct velocity, a posted limit or minimum for all of us. It's relative.Given that, how does your speed match your goals and your strategy? Not compared to everyone else, but compared to the one and only thing you have control over?Passing the slow cars on the road is an illusion, a chance to fool yourself into thinking you're making good progress. To a sloth, even a loris is a speedster.Pick your own pace.  END"}
{"prompt": "Expectation is the brand killer ###", "completion":"There's a difference between speed and acceleration. This is hard for novice physics students to grasp. Velocity ( sometimes confused with speed) is how fast you're going in a given direction. Acceleration is a measure of how quicklyyou're getting faster (or slower) on your way.Brands today are built on relationships, andrelationships of all kinds work solely because of expectation. That thingwe're confidently hoping we're going to get from that next encounter.The shift we're facingis that expectation isn't the speed (the quality, the value, the repeatability of an interaction), it's now become morelike the acceleration of it, the change in what we expect.And so advertisers and fashion houses and singles bars and Hallmark cards are built on promises. The promise of what to expect next.The challenge: Expectations change. A few good encounters and we begin to hope for (and expect) great encounters. Sooner or later, our expectation for a politician or a motorcycle company or a service we regularly engage in goes up so much it can't be met.When the economy is racing forward, people are engaged and satisfied. When it slows, when the good news slows down, people are even less satisfied than they were when they had fewer resources.A common ridiculous expression is, expect the unexpected. Of course, once you do that, it's not unexpected any more, is it?Expectation is in the eye of the beholder, but expectation is often enhanced and hyped by the marketer hoping for a quick win. And there lies the self-defeating dead end of something that would serve everyone if it were a persistent positive cycle instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Demand guardrails ###", "completion":"It's tempting to believe that left to our own devices, we'll all maximize our health, make smart investment decisions and generally follow our instincts on the road to happiness.But it turns out that cigarettes are addictive, that financial distress causes people to make short-term decisions that are damaging, and that we even have trouble doing smart and easy things with a 401(k).Culture is powerful. Marketing makes it even morepowerful. Financial interests are powerful, too.If peer pressure and short-term urgencies set us up to do things we regret, we come out ahead when we support cultural changes that remove that peer pressure and lessen those short-term urgencies.We know that wearing a bicycle helmet can save us from years in the hospital, but some peoplefeel awkward being the only one in a group to do so. A helmet law, then, takes away that problem and we come out ahead. Same for seat belts. One less decision to make.One of thebiggest contributors to decreased cigarette usage is a tax. A tax on sugary drinks has a huge impacton people's health. Is this the encroachment of the dreaded nanny state?It's better than being sick, or dead. It's hard to imagine being a parent and being opposed to these boundaries and disincentives.Banks have a ton of policies designed to remove the temptation of their officers to engage in any sort of graft or corruption. The policies reduce the cognitive load, eliminate temptation and let people get back to work.Guard rails always seem like an unwanted intrusion on personal freedom. Until we get used to them. Then we wonder how we lived without them.Economics was built on a flawed assumption: That we are rational, profit-seeking, long-term players, with access to information and the time and inclination to process it. If all that were true, we'd be living in a very different world.Instead, the humans among us can benefit from realizing that in fact, we're deeply incompetent at making certain kinds of decisions, that well-funded marketers are working overtime to confuse and deceive us, and that cultural guardrails not only help us avoid pitfalls, but give us the reinforcements we need to get back to productive work and healthy lives.  END"}
{"prompt": "In pursuit of cheap ###", "completion":"The race to the bottom is unforgiving and relentless.I ordered some straw hats for a small party. The shipper sent them in a plastic bag, with no box, because it was cheaper. Of course, they were crushed and worthless.I wrote a note to the company's customer service address, but they merely sent an autoreply, because it was cheaper.And they don't answer the phone… you guessed it, because it's cheaper.Of course, you have competition. But the big companies that are winning the price war aren't winning because they've eliminated customer service and common sense. They're winning because of significant advances in scale and process, advances that aren't available to you.Organizations panic in the face of the floor falling out from under their price foundation, and they often respond by becoming a shell of their former selves. Once you decide to become a cheap commodity, all of the choices you made to be a non-commodity fall victim to your pursuit of cheap.Cheap is the last refuge for the marketer who can't figure out how to be better.The alternative is to choose to be worth it, remarkable, reliable, a good neighbor, a worthy citizen, leading edge, comfortable, trusted, funny, easy, cutting edge or just about anything except, the cheapest at any cost.  END"}
{"prompt": "Graceful degradation ###", "completion":"Stuff's going to break.Then what?Air conditioners, for example, gradually lose their charge. When they do, icing can occur. When that happens, the drain pans overflow and water seeps away.The smart builder, then, anticipates all this and has the panconnected to some sort of drain, as opposed to having it rot the beams or collapse a ceiling.Most failures aren't shocking surprises. The law of large numbers is too strong for that. Instead, they are predictable events that smart designers plan for, instead of wishing them away as rare unpredictable accidents.Lastpass is a popular password manager. (You should have a password manager. And tenants' insurance. And you should backup your data, too. You'll thank me one day for the reminder.)It's inevitable that people will forget their master password. It's inevitable that a network glitch or other unforeseen event will cause the software to forget. Sooner or later. Then what?Blaming a significant hassle and frustrating data loss on an unlikely accident is bad design. Instead, Lastpassbuilt in a 'revert' feature will allows them to roll back a password without ever compromising security.When the glitch happens, does your design fail?The most hackneyed line in design is, first, do no harm. A more useful adage is, when weird stuff happens, make sure it doesn't cause harm you didn't expect or plan for.For work where the outcome matters, considerthe immortal words of the Smith System, Always leave yourself an out.  END"}
{"prompt": "Temperament is a skill ###", "completion":"Throwing tantrums, calling names, not doing the reading, making things up, demonizing the other, impulsivity, egomaniacal narcissism, breaking big promises…Waiting your turn, asking hard questions, thinking about others, slowing down in key moments…Telling the truth, taking responsibility…Giving others a chance to share their ideas, attracting and trusting talented people, trusting the right things and being skeptical of the others…These are all skills (or the lack thereof).Somewhere along the way, we accepted the baked-in, unchanging, what-you-see-is-what-you-get view of the world. It lets us off the hook, of course, because if this is the way we are, it’s certainly not our fault.The bravest and most optimistic thing we can do, though, is see that each of ushas the opportunity to doprecisely the opposite. We have far more choices, far more control and far more responsibility than we give ourselves (and others) credit for.Temperament matters. A lot.  END"}
{"prompt": "Dropping the narrative ###", "completion":"Okay, you don’t like what your boss did yesterday or last week or last month. But today, right now, sitting across the table, what’s happening?Narrating our lives, the little play-by-play we can’t help carrying around, that’s a survival mechanism. But it also hotwires our feelings, changes our posture, limits our possibilities.What does this humanfeel right now? What opportunities to make a connection, to grow, to impact exist that we’ve ignored because of the story we are telling ourselves about them?The narrative is useful as long as it’s useful, helping you solve problems and move forward. But when it reinforces bad habits or makes things smaller, we can drop it and merely be present, right here, right now.  END"}
{"prompt": "Fully baked ###", "completion":"In medical school, an ongoing lesson is that there will be ongoing lessons. You're never done. Surgeons and internists are expected to keep studying for their entire career—in fact, it's required to keep a license valid.Knowledge workers, though, the people who manage, who go to meetings, who market, who do accounting, who seek to change things around them—knowledge workers often act as if they're fully baked, that more training and learning is not just unnecessary but a distraction.The average knowledge worker reads fewer than one business book a year.On the other hand, the above-average knowledge worker probably reads ten.Show me your bookshelf, or the courses you take, or the questions you ask, and I'll have a hint as to how much you care about levelling up.  END"}
{"prompt": "The ripples ###", "completion":"Every decision we make changes things. The people we befriend, the examples we set, the problems we solve…Sometimes, if we're lucky, we get to glimpse those ripples as we stand at the crossroads. Instead of merely addressing the urgency of now, we can take a moment to focus on how a quiet insight,overlookedvolunteer work or a particularly welcomehelping hand moves so many people forward. For generations.How did you get to where you are? Who is going to go even further because of you?Thank you for passing it forward.  END"}
{"prompt": "Wedding syndrome ###", "completion":"Running a business is a lot more important than starting one.Choosing and preparing for the job you’ll do for the next career is a much more important task than getting thatjob. Serving is more important than the campaign.And a marriage is always more important than a wedding.It’s tempting to focus on the product launch, on the interview, on the next thing. Tempting, but ultimately a waste.Our culture is organized around transitions, but they’re a distraction. What it says on your wedding invitation doesn’t matter a whole lot in the long run.  END"}
{"prompt": "Spectator sports ###", "completion":"Every year, we spend more than a trillion dollars worth of time and attention on organized spectator sports.The half-life of a sporting event is incredibly short. Far more people are still talking about the Godfather movie or the Nixon administration than care about the 1973 World Series.Billions of people buying tickets and investing countless hours on something of absolutely no significance.It turns out that this insignificance and the ephemeral nature of sporting events is the heart of their appeal.Instead of having passionate arguments about things that matter, issues with consequences, topics where one can be wrong or right, organized sports are a tribal opportunity to vent without remorse.We've taken that pleasure in insignificance and transferred it to celebrity culture as well. And then on to just about everything else, including science and governance.Hence the challenge–because when we start to treat things of significance as if they're a spectator sport, we all lose.Soccer hooligans are a real problem. But hooligans in science (yelling about their opinions, denigrating their opponents) or in world affairs do none of us any good.  END"}
{"prompt": "Anxiety loves company ###", "completion":"Somehow, at least in our culture, we find relief when others are anxious too.So we spread our anxiety, stoking it in other people, looking for solace in the fear in their eyes.And thanks tothe media, to the microphone we each have, to our hyper-connected culture, it’s easier than ever to spread our anxiety if we choose. And when someone who seeks power offers to hear our anxiety in exchange for attention or a vote, it gets even worse.It’s worth noting that there’s no correlation between the real world and anxiety. In fact, it’s probably the opposite–when times are good, people with a lot to lose start to get that itch.Absorb the anxiety if you wish, spread it if you must, but understand that it’s an invention, and it’s optional.  END"}
{"prompt": "Looking for the trick ###", "completion":"When you find a trick, a shortcut, a hack that gets you from here to there without a lot of sweat or risk, it's really quite rewarding. So much so that many successful people are hooked on the trick, always looking for the next one.SEO, for example, had plenty of tricks as it evolved, ways in which a few worked to get rankings and links without deservingthem.Or consider the act of publishing a book. One approach is to spend a lot of time and money tricking the system into believing your book is already successful, which, the trick says, will lead to it becoming actually successful.Or the simple trick to avoid belly fat, lose weight, get a promotion, find dates or make money overnight.I could list a thousand of them, because the web is trick central, a place where, for a short while, the people apparently at the top of whatever heap you aspire to got there by finding and exploiting a trick.There's a meta-trick that's far more reliable. One that works over time and doesn't depend on avoiding being out-tricked: Make great stuff. Satisfy needs. Do the hard work that leads to growth which leads to investment on its own merit.It turns out that the trick-free approach is the best trick of all.  END"}
{"prompt": "Skills vs. talents ###", "completion":"If you can learn it, it's a skill.If it's important, but innate, it's a talent.The thing is, almost everything that matters is a skill. If even one person is able to learn it, if even one person is able to use effort and training to get good at something, it's a skill.It's entirely possible that some skills are easier for talented people to learn. It's entirely possible you don't want to expend the energy and dedicate the effort to learn that next skill.But realizing that it's a skill is incredibly empowering and opens the door of possibility.What are you going to learn next?  END"}
{"prompt": "For the weekend… ###", "completion":"New podcast with Brian KoppelmanClassicpodcast with Krista TippettUnmistakable Creativefrom 2015And a video ofCreative Mornings and their podcastThe Your Turnbook continues to spread. Have you seen it yet?Early-bird pricing on the huge Titan collection ends in 9 days.  END"}
{"prompt": "Widespread confusion about what it takes to be strong ###", "completion":"Sometimes we confuse strength with: LoudnessBrusquenessAn inability to listenA resistance to seeing the world as it isAn unwillingness to compromise small things to accomplish big onesFast talkingBullyingExternal unflappabilityCallousnessLyingPolicies instead of judgment…and being a jerk. Well, once you put it that way, it's pretty clear that none of these things are actually signs of strength.In fact, they are symptoms of brittleness, of insecurity and of a willful disconnect from the things that matter.Individuals, organizations, brands and leaders all have a chance to be strong. And can just easily choose to be jerks.Because it is a choice, isn't it?I think it's up to us not to get them confused, and to accidentally trust the wrong behaviors or the wrong people.Strength begins with unwavering resilience, not brittle aggression.  END"}
{"prompt": "A dark chocolate sampler ###", "completion":"Bean to bar dark chocolate is a revelation. It's got the terroir and backstory of the finest wines, it's a collision of rural farmers and modern technology and markets similar to coffee, and it also brings along the Proustian nostalgia of childhood.Too many of us have been stuck in a Nestle/Hershey universe for too long. And if your early collisions with dark chocolate aren't positive, it's easy to decide it's not worth the trouble or expense.[I get at least 10 servings out of a $10 bar, though, so it's hard for it to feel like a ridiculously expensive luxury. If you skip an espresso…]Here, in no real order, are my favorite brands, all good to start with, all great to stick with. Every one is made by a human, who cares, someone you could meet, engage with and root for.AskinosieRogue (entire production already sold out)Original BeansCacao HuntersPatricDick TaylorRitualMarouGrenadaSomaFruitionTilinA few simple understandings and principles:The percentage matters, in the sense that chocolate that is between 70% and 90% dark is a Platonic ideal of flavor. I avoid flavoring agents like candies, seeds or salt, because what I'm trying to taste is the bean and what the maker has done to bring it to life.The kind of bean matters. Forasterobeans are cheap, easy to grow and not particularly worth seeking out (with a few exceptions). On the other hand, Criollo (particularly the wonderful rare Porcelana hybrid which you can find from Soma and Original Beans) is a party in your mouth–but, alas, the hardest to grow. It's always that way, isn't it? And Trinitario beans are the backbone of this hobby.The country matters. Yes, with practice, it's actually easy to tell the difference between Madagascar and Colombia.And finally, the farmer'srelationship with the grower matters a lot. Askinosie imports their own beans, and does amazing work with the farmers who work so hard to grow them.Enjoy. Halloween doesn't have to mean bad chocolate any more! And don't even get me started on candy corn.  END"}
{"prompt": "What does the poll say? ###", "completion":"It says that people don't understand polls. Even smart marketers get it wrong.What do people think? There's a lot of confusion, much of it intentional, some spawned by a presumed fear of simple math, all of it worth clearing up.A survey is not a poll is not a census. A census is what you get if you ask every single person what they think or whothey are. There are only two reasons to have a census. Either you want each person to feel personally involved (hence an election) or you are keeping track of each person's answer. For example, if you're printing up t-shirts for the Frisbee team, you ought to do a census of the team to find out what size each person wants, then deliver each person the size they seek.You could do a survey, which is merely a collection of answers from whomever cares enough to answerthe survey. A survey is a useful tool for brainstorming, but it shouldn't be confused with what the group actually feels. Your lack of rigor in setting it up is repaid in a lack of precision in the data.And a poll? A poll is a smart shortcut, a statistical method for replacing a census (asking everyone) with a very close approximation achieved by asking the minimum number of people required to get a useful answer. A properly done poll will get you an answer nearly as useful as an accurate census will, without the expense or the time.It rarelymakessense to askall of your customers about how they feel. You're wasting their time (and yours) by adding more entries into the databasewithout those entries actually making the database any more accurate—part of the problem is that the only people who answersurveys are annoyed or have nothing better to do, and simply making a poll bigger doesn't make it better.When big companies ask you to fill out a quick survey after talking to a customer service rep, they're not actually doing a survey. What they're doing is snooping on their customer service people, and your answers are directly connected backto each rep, so that person can be scolded (or worse) if they do a bad job.A poll doesn't predict the future. The media has completely missed this point, again and again. If, on the day the iPhone was announced, you had done a well-designed poll of adults and asked, Do you intend to ever buy a smartphone? the yesseswould have certainly been less than 5% of the result.Of course, a decade later, that's turned out to be completely wrong. Was the poll in error?No.An accurate poll is a snapshotof right now, based on what's happening today. That's all. If outcomes end up being different a week or a year later, that's not the poll's fault, it's our mistaken belief that the future can be predicted.To go one step further, the question that gets asked is as important as the answer.Try this at home: When you ask people a question, they rarely give you the straight up truth in their answer, especially when there are social factors at play. The very best polls combine not only the right math, but more important, the right question structure.The magic of sample size. Let's say you had a bag of M&Ms. You know they come in six colors and you want to figure out the percentage of each that's in the bag. As long as the candies are distributed within the bag, itturns out that no matter how many are in the bag, whether it's a 2 pound bag or a 2,000 pound bag, all you need to do is randomly pull out 300 to 400 M&Ms. That's plenty. More samples won't dramatically increase the quality of this poll.The purposeof the sample is to pick a random selection from a coherent group.The key to this is understanding that sample size is relevant for any sized group that's consistent in its makeup. As soon as you can divide the group into buckets, you benefit by doing multiple samples.Most of the well-done polls you hear about in public do not have a sample size problem. It's a red herring.The power of bucketing. But what happens if you realize that there are more than one kind of M&Ms, and that different kinds have different color distributions? (This, it turns out, for mysterious reasons, is true. Almond M&Ms only come in five colors).Well, you could take this into account and run much bigger sample groups, or you could get smart about sample size.It turns out, for example, that women who ride Harley Davidson motorcycles want different things from them than men do. It also turns out that (I'm guessing about all the Harley stats here) perhaps 10% of the people who buy a Harley are women.Given that, you could poll300 women (the easy minimum) and then 2700 men (so you get the balance right). OR, you could get smart, and poll300 women and 300 men (because every time you add a new person, it's really expensive). But wait, you might say, that's not right, because women are overrepresented.So far, that's true. But after you figure out how women think, and then figure out how men think, you can weight the men's results in your final tally. If, for example, you discovered that women intend to buy a new Harley every two years, but men intend to buy one every sixyears, you could then report back that the average customer intends to buy a new Harley every five and a half years or so. (Said with full knowledge that it's dangerous to average averages, but in this case, it's correct.)Confusion aboutpolls is easy. And the more we try to make decisions using polls, the more careful we need to be about the structure and motivation of the poll itself.But finding an accurate poll is pretty easy as well. Most pollsters (in private and in public work) are transparent about their methods, and the magic of statistics is that the math of how the poll is structured can be checked by others.Too often, marketers do surveys, not polls, or bother everyone with a census, poorly done. Worse, they then use these results as an accurate prediction of the future, instead of a reliable snapshot of now.It's the surveys that are so often wrong, deceptive and confusing. It's surveys (no one I know believes that) that feel like they're accurate but rarely are.And if we're going to challenge a poll, far smarter to challenge the questions (that's designed to get the respondent to lie) or the flaws in sampling (this requires all polled individuals to have a home phone, but of course, an entire generation of young people don't have one.)But it makes no sense at all to throw out the results of polls we disagree with. The quality of the cars we drive, the efficacy of the medicines we take are all directly related to the very same statistical techniques that we use to run a poll. Ask the right questions to the right people and your snapshot is going to be helpful.If you want to, be wary of polls. But be waryfor the right reasons.  END"}
{"prompt": "On your toes ###", "completion":"In any given meeting, on any given day, most people are merely showing up.It's the 50th time he's performed that sonata. The guy in the outfield had a hard day at home before the game. The folks in the meeting are realizing that it's yet another meeting in a long series of meetings, and wondering if it much matters anyway.Every once in awhile, though, someone is on their toes. This cocktail party is a big deal, he thinks, because he's going to meet that agent that could change everything. It's the key presentation before launch. This performance in Carnegie Hall is… well… it's Carnegie Hall.We can't be on our toes all the time. It's too exhausting, and we can't keep it up.But what happens if we decide, everyone in this room, right here and right now, at least for a little while, that we'll act as if it's the first time, or the last time, or our best shot?What would happen if we all got on our toes, together? Just for a little while?That's when big things happen.  END"}
{"prompt": "Decoding pro wrestling ###", "completion":"Professional wrestling is fake.The blood is fake, the lack of physics isfake, the arguing with the ref is fake, the rivalries are fake… it might be professional, but it's not real.This willful disregard for reality is at the heart of pro wrestling. It's a juvenile fantasy, come to life. An opportunity to make up the rules, ignore authority, and exert bullying force on others, merely because you can.So why is Billy Corgan (of Smashing Pumpkins) one of the most successful musicians of our generation, running a pro wrestling organization?He says it's because it's one of the last transgressive arenas left. That it's a morality play, a microcosm of the human condition, a chance to put on a show that highlights our fears and our avarice. He knows that it's fake, authenticity is a foreign concept in this world.And what lesson can we learn from politicsimporting pro wrestling's mindset? Once you see it, you can't unsee the connection. Worth noting that one of the key narratives of pro wrestling is the fake within the fake–someone is always claiming that the outcome is rigged. (In wrestling, of course, it is rigged.And so is the complaining.)Pro wrestling works as a play and a medium because the people who are part of it realize that it's fake.It turns out that modern media is a perfect match for the pro-wrestling approach. You can put on a show, with your own media, as often as you like. And that show is, to many, remarkable, and so it spreads.And there lies the danger, the opportunity for pro-wrestling thinking to corrupt our society: When the fans, or worse, the participants, don't realize that it's fake.In real life, the laws of physics actually work. In real life, blood feuds rarely end well. In real life, accepting the ref's decisions isthe only way to have civilization…The filter bubble creates an echo chamber, and reality stars are pushed to be more like cartoonish pro wrestlers and less like responsible human beings. If it bleeds, it leads.You probably work with people who are living in their own pro wrestling universe. These are people who are so in love with their version of reality and their goals that they view the real world as an affront, an intrusion on the way they insist things turn out.Reality remains our common ground, the best one we have to work with.  END"}
{"prompt": "Two kinds of filters ###", "completion":"There's the filter bubble of the internet, in which we willingly surround ourselves only with information sources with which we agree, soon coming to the conclusion that everyone agrees with us.The other kind is the filter we can choose to build to avoid falling into a rabbit hole of wasted time, misogyny and dissatisfaction. This is to avoid the endless clicking, the hateful comments, the mind-numbing noise of the net.Here's a hint: The first kind of filter is easy to build and satisfying in the short run. It's reassuring to believe we're right.The second kind, the one that builds a foundation for us to do better work, is always under attack from within and without, and it's tempting to stop using it. Tempting to give up, but ultimately worth the effort.The easier the filter is to build, the less it's worth.  END"}
{"prompt": "One way to get a raise ###", "completion":"…is to get promoted.And the best way to get promoted is to learn something new and get good at it. Take a course. Learn to sell. Public speaking. Statistics. Become the person that your organization wants in a bigger role. You can accelerate that process with deliberate learning and practice.Smart companies will pay for it if you ask. After all, it's a high-returninvestment in the very people who do the work. Organizations have learned that it issignificantly cheaper to grow theirpeople than it is to hire pre-grown people from outside.Consider that the altMBA has been taken by leaders from organizations big and small, including Microsoft, DHL, Intel, and Warby Parker. Inevitably, our alumni become more valuable contributors.Many companies that offer tuition reimbursement are frustrated that employees rarely ask for it. Bossesrealize how useful this investment is, they're just waiting for you to take them up on it.It mightfeel awkward to ask your boss if you can take a course (after all, employees are supposed to be perfect, right?) but in fact, one of the biggest insights that growing companies have is that they're only as good as their smartest people.And their best people realize that getting smarter is the only way to avoid falling behind…  END"}
{"prompt": "Fear of outsiders ###", "completion":"Just in time for Halloween, some thoughts on our fear of the other, the people in the shadows, or merely those that don't look like us.It's tempting to rile yourself up about the 'other'.But that's not the real challenge.The challenge is inside. It's the self-sabotage. The projects not shipped, the hugs not given, the art not made.The real boogeyman isn't the other. The one we're afraid of is with us all the time.  END"}
{"prompt": "On being irritated ###", "completion":"Irritation is a privilege.It's the least useful emotion, one that we never seek out.People in true distress are never irritated. Someone who is hungry or drowning or fleeing doesn't become irritated.And of course, irritation rarely helps us get what we need.Irritation clouds our judgment, frustrates our relationships and gets our priorities all wrong.Irritation tries to persuade us that it's justified, but it merely pushes us away from what we actually need.In order to be irritated, we need to believe we're not getting something we deserve. But of course, that expectation is the cause of the irritation. We can choose to lose the expectation, embracing the fact that we're lucky enough to feel it, and then get back to work doing something generous instead.It turns out that irritation is a privilege andirritation is a choice.  END"}
{"prompt": "Moral hazard and inhumanity ###", "completion":"One bit of economic reasoning says, If there are no consequences, people will make bad choices.Don't let big banks get bailouts, because if we do, bankers will take bigger risks.So, make sure that the dentist is expensive (and painful) because that will encourage people to brush their teeth.And don't make it too easy to collect on fire insurance, or people will be careless with matches.Insurers call these behaviors 'moral hazards.' (And some call them 'morale hazards' fyi). In specificinstances, people will make choicesthat cause harm to themselves and to society because they don't fear the consequences.Without a doubt, this makes sense for organizations.But the instances are more specificthan you might guess. For example, awareness of the certainty of lung cancer forty years later doesn't do much to keep teens from smoking. The long-term consequences didn't matter—it was a tax on cigarettes that made the biggest difference.And telling a mentally ill homeless person that he 'deserves' to live on the street because of bad choices along the way isn't doing anything for him, or to those that might be forced into his situation down the road.Waiting for an employee to screw up so we can fire her seems a convoluted way to set a standard for the rest of the team.Too often, we get confused about what people deserve vs. what they get. We use our instinctual, Calvinist understanding of moral hazard as an excuse to teach people a lesson, to callously embrace an efficient market. But of course, the market isn't efficient at all. It unevenly distributes rewards to people based on luck, and allows those with an early head start to amplify that lead with less and less effort.It turns out that building homesfor homeless people is a great way to cut homelessness overall. Poverty doesn't usually respond to moral hazard approaches.Life's risky and it's played for keeps. We all benefit from a safety net.  END"}
{"prompt": "Hardware is sexy, but it’s software that matters ###", "completion":"You can make software if you choose to.Not just the expected version of software that runs on a computer, but the metaphorical idea of rules and algorithms designed to solve problems and connect people…Apple started as a hardware company with the Apple II. Soon in, they realized that while hardware is required, it's software that changes the world.For years, the Mac was merely a container for Mac software. It was the software that enabled the work we created, it wassoftware that shifted our relationship with computers and ultimately each other.Over the last five years, Apple has lost the thread and chosen to become a hardware company again. Despite their huge profits and large staff, we're confronted with (a partial list): Automator, a buggy piece of software with no support, and because it's free, no competitors.Keynote, a presentation program that hasn't been improved in years.IOS 10, which replaces useful with pretty.iTunes, which is now years behind useful tools like Roon.No significant steps forward in word processing, spreadsheets, video editing, file sharing, internet tools, conferencing, etc. Apple contributed mightily to a software revolution a decade ago, but they've stopped. Think about how many leaps forward Slack, Dropbox, Zapierand others have made in popular software over the last few decades. But it requires a significant commitment to keep it moving forward. It means upending the status quo and creating something new. Some simple principles: Software can change faster than hardware, which means that in changing markets, bet on software.It's tempting to treat the user interface as a piece of fashion, some bling, a sort of jewelry. It's not. It's the way your user controls the tool you build. Change it when it stops working, not when you're bored with it. Every time you change the interface, you better havea really good reason.Hardware always gets cheaper. If you can't win that race, don't run it.Getting users is far more expensive than keeping users, which means that investing in keeping users is the smartest way to maintain your position and then grow.Software can create connection, and connection is the engine of our future economy. This is more than a rant about Apple. Any company that makesor uses software has a wide-open opportunity to dramatically change the way we engage. Hardware, on the other hand, often closes more doors than it opens.If you can, make software. And bringenough value (through efficiency, power and connection) tothe marketplace of your choosing thatit will have trouble being productive or happy without you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Plasticity ###", "completion":"It's possible that you're the way you are, that you do what you do, that you react as you react, and that it can never be changed.Believing this is incredibly sad, though.Each of us is capable of just a little more. A little more patience, a little more insight, a little more generosity.And if you can do a little more, then, of course, you can repeat those changes until you've done a lot more.  END"}
{"prompt": "The FLASH drives ###", "completion":"Fear, loneliness, anger, shame & hunger.They drive us. They divide us. They take us away from our work, our mission, our ability to make a difference. And yet, sometimes, they fuel our motion, leading to growth and connection.When a variety of FLASH shows up, it almost never calls itself by name. Instead, it lashes out. It criticizes what we’ve made or done. And mostly, it hides behind words, argument and actions, instead of revealing itself.As you’ve guessed, correcting the false argument is futile. Logic doesn’t work either. You can’t reason with FLASH because it is, by definition, unreasonable.Worth repeating that: We’re rarely reasonable. Most of the time, we’re afraid, lonely, angry, shameful or hungry.Sometimes, we can address those emotions by seeing that reason can help our problem, but mostly, we start and end with the emotion.Recognize it.Pause to allow it be seen and heard.And then, if we’re willing, we can dance with it. We can put the arguments aside, the demands and the expectations and sit with the emotion. Not get defensive, because the emotion isn’t about us or our work at all.Then, maybe, we can begin to bring civilization back into the conversation, the story of us, the opportunity for growth and connection, and ultimately, the power of thought and reason and forward motion.  END"}
{"prompt": "Sort by price ###", "completion":"Imagine a supermarket (or any store, for that matter), where the items are arranged by price. At one end is the salt and the chewing gum, and at the other end are mops and steaks.We always think about the cost of an item before we buy it, but we don't buy it because of what it costs.If you find yourself acting like you sell a commodity, saying, this is category X and the price is Y then you've ceased doing any sort of marketing. You're a commodity provider by choice, which is fine as long as you're okay with competing in a race to the bottom.The alternative is to do the difficult and risky work of earning attention, earning a reputation and mostly telling a story that takes your product or service out of the commodity category and into a space defined by connection, meaning and possibility instead.Low price is the refuge for the marketer who doesn't have anything more meaningful to offer.  END"}
{"prompt": "Hobson’s choice, Occam’s razor, Wheeler’s which and the way we decide ###", "completion":"Hobson's choice is no choice at all. Take what's offered, or walk away.Occam's razor is a rule of thumb: the simplest explanation is often the best one.Wheeler's which teaches us that the answer to one egg or two? is usually 'one', while the answer to, do you want an egg? is usually zero.Occam, Hobson and Wheeler were all scholars of something humans are fabulously bad at: deciding among multiple options.Getting good at this is a skill, something we can do better if we choose to. That might be the first decision.[Some readers were curious about the Wheeler which. Elmer Wheeler was a sales trainer nearly a century ago. He got hired by a chain of drugstores to increase sales at the soda fountain. In those days, a meal might consist of just an ice cream soda for a nickel. But for an extra penny or two, you could add a raw egg (protein!). Obviously, if more people added an egg, profits would go up. Wheeler taught the jerks (isn't that a great job title?) to ask anyone who ordered a soda, One egg or two? Sales of the egg add-on skyrocketed.]  END"}
{"prompt": "On demand vs. in stock ###", "completion":"You can have any color car you want as long as it's black.Henry Ford made cars in black because black paint dried four hours faster than any other color. That fast drying meant that the line worked faster, which made them cheaper. Just asimportant, he didn't have stockouts–with only one color, the color you wanted was the color he had.Ever since then, there's been a move to on-demand, built to order and custom work. In everything we do. Freelance work, shoes, baked goods, kitchen cabinets, software, travel plans. And it seems like a cost-free progression. The thing is, it's not.Most of the cost of everything we buy is in the risk, the starting, the stopping, the waste, the breakage, the planning.A pair of mass produced shoes can be made for $3. A pair of custom shoes might cost $200 once you count all the associated costs.McDonald's hit a peak moment of productivity by getting to a mythical scale, with a limited menu and little in the way of customization. They could deliver a burger for a fraction of what it might take a diner to do it on demand.McDonald's now challenges the idea that custom has to cost more, because they've invested in mass customization.Things that are made on demand by algorithmic systems and robots cost more to set up, but once they do, the magic is that the incremental cost of one more unit is really low. If you're organized to be in the mass customization business, then the wind of custom everything is at your back.The future clearly belongs to these mass customization opportunities, situations where thereis little cost associated with stop and start, little risk of not meeting expectations, where a robot and software are happily shifting gears all day long.But if you're not set up for this, if you're hustling your coders or your production line or your painters or whomever to go faster and cheaper, you're fighting the wrong side of the productivity curve. It's like the diner that sought to be a friendly, custom-order place but also promised to be as cheap or as profitable as a fast food place.These traditional businesses, the small ones, the non-automated ones, can sell custom, sure, but not at the price they used tosell the thing theymake in bulk. And too often, organizations undercharge for the custom work and find themselves trapped between the productivity of doing things in batches and the challenge of delighting each customer, who carries his or her own dreams of what perfect looks like.  END"}
{"prompt": "Finding the thread ###", "completion":"Unraveling has precisely the same meaning as raveling… when we pull on a thread, pull and pull, as it unweaves what came before.It's nice to have the next thing clearly laid out, planned and sure to work.It would make our projects and our art and our plans a lot more secure.More often, though, we have to ravel for quite a while before we have enough to work with.Nothing is ready when we need it to be, but that merely means we have to begin earlier.  END"}
{"prompt": "Choose better ###", "completion":"More honest, more caring, more generous.It's all a choice, isn't it?We can choose to dream better, connect better and contribute better.Sometimes, in the rush for more, we get confused about what better means, and how attainable it is.If you are lucky enough to be with family today, I hope you'll get a chance to use our beloved Thanksgiving Readeraround your table. It's a free PDF that you can print out and use for group readings.  END"}
{"prompt": "All we have is each other ###", "completion":"And that's enough. It has to be.It's all we've ever had.The challenge is in realizing this and working with it, even when we're secretly hoping for something more, some external force.You and me, kid, you and me and a few billion other folks.We can treat each other as if it matters, because it does.  END"}
{"prompt": "The yeasayer ###", "completion":"Opposite of the naysayer, of course.This is the person who will find ten reasons why you should try something.The one who will embrace the possibility of better.The colleague to turn to when a reality check is necessary, because the reality is, it might work.Are you up for it?  END"}
{"prompt": "Limited, unique & educational ###", "completion":"It snowed last night here, so it must be almost time for the holidays. Some thoughts as you think about holiday gifts for you and the people you care about:There are fewer than 2,000 copies of my huge new collection left. The book weighs 18 pounds, it's 800 pages long and profusely illustrated. We will not be printing any more, that's all there are. All the copies arecurrently on container ships and on theirway to ourfulfillment house… orders taken now shouldarrive to most locations before the holidays.My most recent original book, What To Do When It's Your Turn… is now in its fifth printing. It comes in a multi-pack, so you can have one and give one (or more) away.I have three bestselling courseson Udemy. There is a master course on value creation, one for freelancers and a leadership course that's a fundraiser for Acumen. Learning is a great gift, of course, because it transforms people you care about. And it is sure to be the right size.You can find a list of all my books here.And we're getting close to my live event in New York on December 10. I hope you can come and even better, bring a colleague.Thanks!  END"}
{"prompt": "After your first job ###", "completion":"It's easy to remember our first job, or even our first 7 jobs. Cleaning the grease off the hot dog wheel at the fast food place. Caddying. Mowing lawns. Shlepping.But how common is it to ask people about the first time they got a computer to do what they needed it to? Our first successful computer program, our first Excel macro, our first Zapier procedure?Or, how widespread is it to compare our first sales experiences? The first time you sold something on your own? The first doorbell you rang, or the first time you persuaded someone to invest in an asset you were building?There are millions of years of tradition involved in cleaning the grease off something. Programming and selling, on the other hand, are building blocks for a new kind of future.  END"}
{"prompt": "When your phone uses you ###", "completion":"Your smartphone has two jobs.On one hand, it was hired by you to accomplish certain tasks. In the scheme of things, it's a screaming bargain and a miracle.But most of the time, your phone works for corporations, assorted acquaintances and large social networks. They've hired it to put you to work for them. You're not the customer, you're the product. Your attention and your anxiety is getting sold, cheap.When your phone grabs your attention, when it makes you feel inadequate, when it pushes you to catch up, to consume and to fret, it's not working for you, is it?On demand doesn't mean you do things when the device demands.  END"}
{"prompt": "Moving a conversation forward ###", "completion":"That next thing you're going to say, what's it for?Is it to advance the conversation, to get a client, to make them go away, to find intimacy, to share a truth, to ask for help, to offer help, to pass the time, to learn something, to teach something, to build trust…Talking about the weather is a stall. Stalling has a function, but it's not the best we can do.Intention opens the door to forward motion.  END"}
{"prompt": "Shared reality, shared goals ###", "completion":"The best way to persuade someone of your new approach is to begin with threeagreements:We agree on the goals. We both want the same outcomes, we're just trying different ways to get there.We agree on reality. The world is not flat. Facts are actually in evidence. Statistics, repeatable experiments and clear evidence of causation are worth using as tools.We agree on measurement. Because we've agreed on goals and reality, we agree on what success looks like as well.All three allow us to enroll on the same journey, and to hold each other accountable for our work. Any other approach disrespects your partners and leaves you in a corner, without allies.  END"}
{"prompt": "Today’s a great day to dig in for next year ###", "completion":"The week between Christmas and New Years is notoriously quiet. Your phone buzzes less often, there are no client meetings, no deadlines.If you work for yourself, this might be the perfect week to take my freelancer course. Not merely watch it, but work through it. If you're willing to focus and challenge yourself, it could transform your business and the time you spend init.On sale only this week, until the end of the year. $29. Details are here.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your mileage may vary ###", "completion":"That's not true.Your mileage will vary.Of course it will. Of course everything won't be precisely as you imagined it, as it was described, as you deserve.Sure, then what?Will you react or respond? You could react in anger and fear. You could find peopleto blame, you could easilyamplify your anger, you coulddig deep for vitriol and snark and use your words and actions to drive a wedge between you and whoever didn't meet your imagined spec.Or, perhaps you will respond by focusing on the opportunities the divergence presents. What a chance tocelebrate what you've got and even better, find a way to build something even better.  END"}
{"prompt": "The wrong side of history ###", "completion":"Racist and sexist verbal attacks ('remarks' is too mild) never make sense.Over time, people who judge others by their origin or chromosomes are always proved wrong, always shown to be afraid, not wise.The fear that provokes these attacks takes many forms, it doesn't discriminate based on the bigot's age or income or even race or gender. But the fear is real, and when the fear pushes people todemean others, it's revealing itself.Even though the fear is real, it's not an excuse. When we speak with respect and offer dignity and empathy, we're describing our future. 'Politically correct' is a cheap way of dismissing maturity, confidence and kindness. Calling angry wordsa joke, or a momentary slip can't hide them.History shows us that attackingthose that would bring hard work, generosity and insight to our lives is always a mistake.  END"}
{"prompt": "Is it a note worth playing? ###", "completion":"Just published, a three-minute TED talk from 2014: It follows on the ideas in this TEDx talk from a few years before: Have a happy holiday and a peaceful (and worthwhile) New Year.  END"}
{"prompt": "When everyone is in favor… ###", "completion":"It's almost certain that there's confusion about what's being decided.  END"}
{"prompt": "No one knows anything ###", "completion":"About twentyyears ago, Permission Marketing was getting ready to go to the publisher. We sent a copy to Jack Trout,co-author of the classic book, Positioning.Surprisingly, Jack replied with a long letter, letting us know that mybook was based on a fundamentally flawed idea, that it would never work and we’d be better off not even publishing it. Not something most authors want to hear.The good news was that the book went on to become a bestseller and, even better, it transformed the way many organizationsengaged with email and with consumers. It led to a market that’s now worth billions of dollars a year.The lesson from Jack’s note was simple: Since no one is sure, since no one can guarantee that it’s going to work (or not), all we can do is our best work. All we can do is share our ideas with generosity, speak up and shine a light.Critics can share their experience and they can point out what doesn’t match their expectations.But it’s up to you, the person on the hook, to choose to care enough to share your project and your vision of possibility, regardless.Everyone has an opinion, but no one has a guarantee.  END"}
{"prompt": "Missed it by that much ###", "completion":"I got to the gate just as they closed the door and the plane began to back away.It was thirty years ago, but I still remember how it felt. I think we’re hard-wired to fear these painful moments of missing out.Deadlines don’t cause death if missed, but sometimes we persuade ourselves that it’s almostas bad. As a result, marketers and others that want us to take action invent cliffs, slamming doors and loud buzzers.We put a rope at door, a timer on the clock and focus on scarcity and the fear of missing out. And as a result, consumers and students and co-workers wait for the signals, prioritizing their lives around the next urgency.When everything is focused on the deadline, there’s little time to work on the things that are actually important.When we build our lives around ‘what’s due’ we sacrifice our agency to the priorities and urgencies of everyone else.More important is the bigger issue:Time is running out.For all the things you might want to experience, not merely the ones that are about to leave the gate.Time is running out for you to level up or connect or to be generous to someone who really needs you.Time is running out for you to become the person you've decided to be, to make the difference you seek to make, to produce the work you know you're capable of.Set your own buzzer.  END"}
{"prompt": "Make believe problems ###", "completion":"We focus on them and elevate them on our priority list.Sometimes, we invent a fake problem and give it great import and urgency as a way to take our focus and fear away from the thing that's actually a threat. These fake problems have no apparent solution, but at least they give us something to fret over, a way to distract ourselves and the people around us.And sometimes, we pick a fake problem that has a convenient and easy fake solution. Because, the thinking goes, we're taking action, so things must be getting better.Short order cooks rarely make change happen. And denying reality doesn't make it go away.  END"}
{"prompt": "Friction and traction ###", "completion":"It's fashionable for designers and marketers to want to reduce friction in the way they engage with users.And sometimes, that's smart. If someone knows what they want, get out of their way and help them get it. One-click, done.But often, what we want is traction. The traction to find our footing, shift our posture, make a new decision. The traction to actually influence what happens next, not merely slip our way toward a goal of someone else's choosing.  END"}
{"prompt": "Just the right amount of data ###", "completion":"Thedigital sign at the train station near my home could show me what time it is.It could tell ushow many more minutes until the next train.Or it could announce if the train was running on time…Instead, it shows me today's date.What am I supposed to do with that data?Or consider the typical hotel bathroom scale. Accurate to plus or minus five pounds, it's worthless, because it doesn't help the user know how much weight has been gained (or lost).In this case, the absolute number doesn't matter, it's the trend over time.Information is data with a purpose and a context.  END"}
{"prompt": "Shared reality, diverse opinions ###", "completion":"We're not having a lot of trouble with the diverse opinions part.But they're worthless without shared reality.At a chess tournament, when the newcomer tries to move his rook diagonally, it's not permitted. Hey, that's just your opinion, is not a useful response. Because, after all, chess is defined by the rules of the game. If you want to play a different game, begin by getting people to agree to the new rules.In physics, it doesn't matter how much you want a ping pong ball to accelerate faster, your opinion isn't going to change what happens.It's tempting to race right into our plans to solve a problem, but too often, we wrap our version of reality tightly into that proposed solution, without thoughtfully getting buy in on the reality before launching into the solution we're so eager to describe.Shared reality is the foundation on which we can build trust, make promises and engagein a useful discussion on how to achieve our goals.  END"}
{"prompt": "Appropriate complexity and risk ###", "completion":"The best time to experiment in the kitchen is if you don't have 11 guests coming for dinner in three hours.Or, at the very least, be sure to have some decent frozen pizzas on hand, just in case.We often sign ourselves up for long, involved entanglements, and a good thing, too, because they can enable us to produce real value.But our promises matter, and there's no need to raise the stakes at the same time that we're figuring things out.Professionals leave themselves an out.  END"}
{"prompt": "A listening device ###", "completion":"Jacqueline Novogratz points out that the market can be an efficient listening device. If you go to a person and offercharity or even a gift, there's not a lot of choice. But if you offer to sell someone something, you'll hear very clearly what's wrong with it, whether it's worth it, and how it can be improved. The transaction engages both sides in a discussion, and sometimes, the market causes the supplier to listen. Co-creation over time transforms problems into opportunities.In fact, this is the single best explanation for why markets work. Voluntary engagement and the exchange of resources can solve many problems, particularly if coercion is avoided.As soon as an organization achieves significant market power, though, it's tempting for it to not listen any longer. Coercion and market power feel more efficient than engaging and leading. Apple stopped listening to its biggest fans and focuses on the stock price instead. Companies with near monopolies (like telecommunications, Google, Fedex, etc.) begin to lose the listening skills they'd developed and instead respond by expressing their power. Extraction companies focus on lobbying instead of innovating.This willful ignorance and lack of engagement can last a long time, but it never lasts forever. Someone who listens better eventually shows up and changes the game.If you hold the small end of a megaphone up to your ear, it acts as an amplifier, helping you listen more carefully.And if you want to be heard, you can moveit to your mouthand share your ideas. Persistently, consistently and often.The best way to complain is to make something. The second best way is to say something. And if you can organize others to say it with you, even better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Hoarding doesn’t work ###", "completion":"There's a contradiction built into our instinct to hoard: the more we do it, the less we get.An idea shared is worth more than one kept hidden. Opportunities passed from one to another create connections which lead to more opportunities. Opened doors lead to forward motion.Winning doesn't usually involve demolishing the opposition. Instead, for most of us, it's about weaving. A scientist without peers won't find a breakthrough anytime soon. A bookstore with one book won't work. A market with only one vendor will fail. And if you're the only cello player in town, your craft will disappear.Trust and connection and utilization support forward motion.The primary driver of our well-being is our culture. A culture built on selfishness is harsh, brittle and short-lived.We're not payingthings forward. We're launching themforward, and it will boomerang back to us, eventually, somehow, in some form, if we do it often enough and with enough generosity.  END"}
{"prompt": "Almost no one ###", "completion":"We may dream of the mass market, but the mass market doesn't dream of us.Almost no one visits your restaurant, almost no one buys your bestselling book, almost no one watches the Tonight Show.Rare indeed is a market where everyone is active.We think we're designing and selling to everyone, but that doesn't match reality. It makes no sense at all to dumb down your best work to appeal to the longtime bystander, because the bystander isn't interested. And it certainly makes no sense to try to convert your biggest critics, because they've got a lot at stake in their role of being your critic.Growth comes from person-to-person communication, from the powerful standards of 'people like us'. And it comes from activating people who are ready to be activated.The most recent Presidential election makes this clear: It's the non-voting bystanders who are in the majority:  END"}
{"prompt": "Long-term strategy: Don’t be a jerk ###", "completion":"In the moment, when you have power, no matter how momentarily, how will you choose to act?Jerk comes from the idea of pulling hard on the reins, suddenly and without care. Horses don't like it and neither, it turns out, do people.More than just about anything else, what you dowhen you have the chanceis what people say about you and remember about you. The community pays careful attention to the restraint (or lack of it) that you show when the opportunity arises.Whether you're a parent or a multinational, in the long run,the wheel is going to turn. It might be a minute, a day or a week, but your power is unlikely to last.When we assume that everyone is a volunteer and that all power is transient, it's easier to become the person we're proud to be.This is the essence of marketing–acting in the way you'd like to be seen and understood. Especially when you have the power to make choices.  END"}
{"prompt": "And then what happens? ###", "completion":"A simple dialog can turn opinions into plans (or perhaps, into less tightly held opinions).We ask, and then what happens?Flesh it out. Tell us step by step. The more detail the better.No miracles allowed. And it helps if each step is a step that's worked before, somewhere and sometime else. The other question that helps with this is, has that step ever worked before?We don't have a shortage of loud and strongly held points of view about business, culture, or technology. But it may be that finding the time to draw a map helps us get to where we want to go (or to realize that we need a new map).  END"}
{"prompt": "Fast, easy, cheap, delicious and healthy (a food bonus) ###", "completion":"I don’t usually blog about food, but here you go:The next chance you have to visit an Indian grocery, buy yourself a packet of papad (sometimes called papadum, or the phonologic, ‘poppers’). They cost about $2 for 10.(my favorite brand) [It turns out that this is a woman-owned company, doing social innovation along the way]…Preheat the oven to 500 degrees and then put them in, one or two at a time, right on the oven rack. They cook in about one minute.Done. (photo) High in protein, healthy, low impact in their production, crunchy… They even keep for a few days in a plastic bag.This might be the perfect food for the planet. Have fun.  END"}
{"prompt": "What bureaucracy can’t do for you ###", "completion":"It lets us off the hook in many ways. It creates systems and momentum and eliminates many decisions for its members.I'm just doing my job.That's the way the system works.Most of all, it gives us a structure to lean against, a way of being in the world without always understanding the big picture or the side effects or the implications of our actions. Bureaucracy, the organizational imperative, the system of meetings and people and leverage—it keeps us sane.The one thing it can't do, though, is let you off the hook.When you write your history, and when others judge you, they will not accept that you had no choice. What you did when it felt like it was too difficult to say 'no' is precisely who you are.We remember the people who said 'no' when they thought they had no good options. And we remember the people who went along as well.We get the benefits of bureaucracy, but we also have to accept the costs. And the biggest one is that we're required to own our actions, to speak up, stand up and act up when we're asked to do the wrong thing.The alternative is to lose our agency and to accept that we're no longer human.  END"}
{"prompt": "The why of urgent vs. important ###", "completion":"You know you should be focusing on the long-term journey, on building out the facility, signing up new customers or finishing your dissertation.But instead, there's a queue of urgent things, all justifiable, all requiring you and you alone to handle them. And so you do, pushing off the important in favor of the urgent.Of course, everyone has this challenge, but some people manage to get past it. Even you, the last time you made a major move forward. Think about it–those urgencies from a few years ago: who's handling them now?The reason we go for urgent is that it makes us feel competent. We're good at it. We didn't used to be, but we are now.Important, on the other hand, is fraught with fear, with uncertainty and with the risk of failure.Now that you know why, you can dance with it.  END"}
{"prompt": "The smoking lounge ###", "completion":"They still have one at theHelsinki airport.No one in the lounge seems particularly happy to be there. Perhaps they enjoyed smoking when they first started, but now, it sure looks like they realize that it's expensive, unhealthy and a bit of a hassle. Something they feel compelled to do.The thing is, there are a few people nearthe lounge busy checking their phones, and they seem just as unhappy about what they're doing.I wonder when we're going to start building social media lounges?  END"}
{"prompt": "Hit the red button ###", "completion":"Everyone on your team should have one.When wehit the button, itinstantly alerts the CEO or someone who willingly takes responsibility for what happens next.And then the question: What are the circumstances where an employee should (must) hit the red button? Consider: A sexual harassment complaintA customer leaves over poor serviceThere's pressure to ship inferior or dangerous productsThe wait in thecustomer service queue passes 8 minutesAny other combination of bribery, racism, dumping of effluents, breaking promises, cooking books, lying to the public, etc…. If you don't have a button, why not?The red button makes it clear to your team that they should either solve important problems on the spot or let you do so, and that not treating a problem seriously is not an option.And if you don't treat your projectseriously enough to have a button, if there isn't a culture where you want people to either fix these sorts of problems or get them looked at immediately, why not?We can compromise our way into just about anything. At least do it on purpose.  END"}
{"prompt": "Over/with ###", "completion":"You connect with someone.But you exert power over someone.You can dance and communicate and engage with a partner. It's a two way street, a partnership.On the other hand, you either exert control over someone, or you are under their control. If you want to be an Olympic wrestler, you need to be comfortable (not necessarily in favor of, but willing to live with) the idea that you will spend time under.For thousands of years, we've builtour culture to teach people to not only tolerate a powerful overlord, but in a vacuum, to seek one out. We build school around the idea of powerful teachers, coaches and authority figures telling us what to do. We go to the placement office to seek a job, instead of starting our own thing, because we've been taught that this is the way it works, it's reliable, it's safer.And so we're pushed to begin with under, not with.The connection economy begins to undermine this dynamic. But it's frightening. It's frightening to have your own media channel, your own platform, your own ability to craft a community and 1,000 true fans. So instead, we seek out someone to tell us what to do, to trade this for that.I think it's becoming clear that power doesn't scale like it used to. Too many unders and not enough withs.But, each of us can change our perspective, as soon as we're ready.Find your with.  END"}
{"prompt": "Drawing a line in the sand ###", "completion":"There are two real problems with this attitude:First, drawing lines. Problems aren't linear, people don't fit into boxes. Lines are not nuanced, flexible or particularly well-informed. A line is a shortcut, a lazy way to deal with a problem you don't care enough about to truly understand.Most of all, drawing a line invites the other person to cross it.Second, the sand. Sand? Really? If you're going to draw a line, if you're truly willing to go to battle, you can do better than sand.  END"}
{"prompt": "Squeezing the last minute out of a session ###", "completion":"It's too late now.If you're the moderator of a panel and you want to rush through one more question…Or if you're the speaker and you need to race through three more slides…Or if you're a writer or designer and want to add just one more idea…Or if you're the teacher and there's just one more concept to talk about even though the bell's about to ring.Too late.End with a pause.End with confidence and calm and yes, please respect your audience enough to not expect that cramming is going to help us or you.No one, not once in the history of timers, has ever said, I'm really glad that they went over by thirty seconds, huffing and puffing and begging for attention. That was the best part, and I respect them for cramming it all in.  END"}
{"prompt": "Our worldview casts a shadow in the words that resonate ###", "completion":"One reason it's difficult to understand each other is that behind the words we use are the worldviews, the emotions and the beliefs we have before we even consider what's being said.Before we get to right and wrong, good or bad, effective or ineffective, we begin with worldview.They affect the way we choose a car, engage in a conversation or vote. These cultural and learned worldviews alter the way we see and hear and speak.Words like: Fairness, change, interference, freedom, responsibility and opportunity trigger different reactions based on worldview. It's always easier to encourage action based on an existing worldview than it is to change that view.The columns below don't line up for everyone (or anyone), but instead highlight different instincts on different axes on how each of us see the world in any given moment…   An all-powerful authorityTreat others as you'd want to be treated Confidence, results, right now, right laterExploration, truth, working toward perfect, always a little wrong Self-respect, power, agency, taking spaceRole awareness, dignity, giving space, flexibility Deserve, entitled, keepShare, distribute, invest EffectsSide effects Ends and meansMeans and ends Getting things doneListening, speaking up and being heard Patriotism, nationalism, the homelandCommunity, ecology, the system Power, authority, compliance, respect, statusFairness, hope, justice, connection, healing Profit-seekingPublic utility IntuitiveInformed Realism, denialOptimism, pessimism Rewards, incentives, victory, spoilsEquity, fairness and the alleviation of suffering Urgency, triumph, security, impulseSelf control, long-term thinking, wisdom VengeanceForgiveness Zero-sumWin-win  Once we understand the landscape that someone sees, we have an easier time using words and images to fill in that landscape, to create a story that they can hear and understand, and, perhaps, we canmake change happen.  END"}
{"prompt": "Merely transactional ###", "completion":"We owe you nothing.This week, all but one NFL owner voted to let the Raiders leave Oakland for Las Vegas (I'm not a football fan, but bear with me).A nearly perfectexample of how one version of capitalism corrupts our culture.The season ticket holder bought a ticket and got his games. Even steven. We owe you nothing.The dedicated fan sat through endless losing games. Even steven. Ticket purchased, game delivered. We owe you nothing.The problem with 'even steven' is that it turns trust and connection and emotions into nothing but a number. Revenue on a P&L. It ignores the long-term in exchange for a relentless focus on today. Only today.There's an alternative view of capitalism. Modern capitalism. Capitalism for the long-term. In this view, the purpose of an enterprise is to make things better. To minimize negative externalities and create value. Value for the owners, sure, but also for the workers, the customers and the bystanders.We owe you everything.You trusted us. You showed up. You tolerated our impact on your world, even when you didn't invite us in.It'll never be even steven, but we can try to repay you. Thank you for the opportunity.I think this is what sports fans signed up for when they were first offered the chance to support a team. Maybe your customers feel the same way.  END"}
{"prompt": "All we have to do is be the person we say we are ###", "completion":"No need to shop for a better you, or to work overtime to make bigger promises.Keeping the promises we've already made is sufficient.  END"}
{"prompt": "Nickels and dimes are worth less than that ###", "completion":"The real asset you're building is trust.And even though it's tempting to cut a corner here and there to boost profit per interaction, the real cost is huge.No one will say anything, no one will put up a fuss, until one day, they're gone. Those extra few dollars you made with some fancy footwork have now cost you tens of thousands of dollars in lost value.The opposite is clearly true: invest a nickel or a dime every chance you get, and the trust you earn pays for itself a hundred times over.  END"}
{"prompt": "What if scale wasn’t the goal? ###", "completion":"From restaurants to direct mail, there's pressure to be scalable, to be efficient, to create something easily replicated.Which is often used as the reason it's not very good. Well, we'd like to spend more time/more care/more focus on this, but we need to get bigger.What if you started in the other direction?What would happen if you created something noteworthy and worried about scale only after you've figured out how to make a difference?  END"}
{"prompt": "Unselling ###", "completion":"Getting someone to switch to you is totally different from getting someone who's new to the market to start using the solution you offer.Switching means:Admitting I was wrong, and, in many cases, leaving behind some of my identity, because my tribe (as I see them) is using what I used to use.So, if you want to get a BMW motorcycle owner to buy a Harley as his next bike, you have your work cut out for you.He's not eager to say, well, I got emotionally involved with something, but I realized that there's a better choice so I switched, I was wrong and now I'm right.And he's certainly not looking forward to walking away from his own self-defined circle and enduring the loneliness as he finds a new circle.Which leads to three things to think about: If you seek to grow quickly, realize that your best shot is to get in early, before people have made a commitment, built allegiances and started to engage in cognitive dissonance (since I picked this one, it must be good). If you are marketing to people who will have to switch to engage with you, do it with intention. Your pitch of, this is very very good is insufficient. Your pitch of, you need something in this category makes no sense, because I'm already buying in that category. Instead, you must spend the time, the effort and the money to teach me new information that allows me to make a new decision. Not that I was wrong before, but that I was under-informed. Ignore the tribal links at your peril. Without a doubt, people like us do things like this, is the most powerful marketing mantra available. Make it true, then share the news. We invent a status quo every time we settle on something, because we'd rather tell ourselves that we made a good decision than live with the feeling that we didn't.  END"}
{"prompt": "Toward civilization ###", "completion":"If war has an opposite, it's not peace, it's civilization. (inspired by Ursula LeGuinwriting in 1969)Civilization is the foundation of every successful culture. It permits us to live in safety, without being crippled by fear. It's the willingness to discuss our differences, not to fight over them. Civilization is efficient, in that it permits every member of society to contribute at her highest level of utility. And it's at the heart of morality, because civilization is based on fairness.The civilization of a human encampment, a city or town where people look out for one another and help when help is needed is worth seeking out.We're thrilled by the violent video of the iguanaand the snakes, partly because we can't imagine living a life like that, one where we are always at risk.To be always at risk, to live in a society where violence is likely—this undermines our ability to be the people we seek to become.Over the last ten generations, we've made huge progress in creating an ever more civilized culture. Slavery (still far too prevalent) is now seen as an abomination. Access to information and healthcare is better than it's ever been. Human culture is far from fully civilized, but as the years go by, we're getting better at seeing all the ways we have to improve.And this can be our goal. Every day, with every action, to make something more civilized. To find more dignity and possibility and opportunity for those around us, those we know and don't know.Hence the imperative. Our associations, organizations and interactions must begin with a standard of civility. Our work as individuals and as leaders becomes worthwhile and generous when we add to our foundation of civilization instead of chipping away at it.The standard can come from each of us. We can do it. We can speak up. We can decide to care a little more. We can stand up to the boss, the CEO, or the elected representative and say, wait, when they cross the line, when they pursue profit at the cost of community, when they throw out the rules in search of a brawl instead. The race to the bottom and the urge to win at all costs aren't new, but they'renot part of who we are and ought to be.  END"}
{"prompt": "Holding your breadth ###", "completion":"It's tempting to diversify, particularly when it comes to what you offer the world.One more alternative, one more flavor, one more variation.Something for everyone.We get pushed to smooth out the work, make it softer, more widely applicable.More breadth, though, doesn't cause change, and it won't get you noticed.Focus works. A sharp edge cuts through the clutter.  END"}
{"prompt": "Seriously vs. personally ###", "completion":"Professionals take their work seriously. The work matters, the impacts and externalities are real.On the other hand, we can't take it personally. When someone rejects an idea, or if a project doesn't succeed, we've learned a valuable lesson about strategy and about tactics, but it's not a reflection on our worth as a human.  END"}
{"prompt": "The reason we need the FDA (hint: it’s marketers) ###", "completion":"Here's the original ad for Coca-Cola:French Wine Coca is indorsed (sic) by over 20,000 of the most learned and scientific medical men in the world . . . . . . Americans are the most nervous people in the world . . . All who are suffering from any nervous complaints we commend to use the wonderful and delightful remedy, French Wine Coca, infallible in curing all who are afflicted with any nerve trouble, dyspepsia, mental and physical exhaustion, all chronic wasting diseases, gastric irritability, constipation, sick headache, neuralgia, etc. is quickly cured by the Coca Wine . . . . . . Coca is a most wonderful invigorator of the sexual organs and will cure seminal weakness, impotency, etc., when all other remedies fail . . . To the unfortunate who are addicted to the morphine or opiate habit, or the excessive use of alcohol stimulants, the French Wine Coca has proven a great blessing, and thousands proclaim it the most remarkable invigorator that every sustained a wasting and sinking system. (Thanks to Adam Alter's urgent and powerfulnew book).John Pemberton, who wrote this ad, was addicted to the cocaine in the product and ultimately died from stomach cancer, an addict. Just six years later his son died from the same addiction.In a competitive environment, in which some marketers are rewarded for the short-term hit, the race to the bottom is inevitable. That doesn't mean it works, but it hurts. Self-regulation doesn't work in large markets that have easy entry, with many short-term competitive battles going on.Smart, ethical marketers understand that regulation actually helps them do their work.Regulation not only benefits the unsuspecting public, it benefits marketers, too. Without guardrails, they won't be able to stop.  END"}
{"prompt": "To tell the truth ###", "completion":"Thirty years ago, Fleischmann and Pons announced that they were able to create fusion at room temperature. Scientists around the world began work inthis new field, only to discover that they couldn't replicate the reported results. It turns out that the original researchers hadn't told the truth. Millions of dollars and countless hours were wasted.Science is based on honestly and accurately reporting what happened. Not reporting anopinion or a point of view as much as actual events and theories that fit those events.But the same thing is true of the results you got from the direct marketing test you did yesterday.And the efficacy of a new cancer vaccine or economic policy.We need people to report what's actually true, so we can work with it.The same thinkingapplies towhether or not your product made money last month and what temperature it was in Cleveland on Tuesday.On the other hand, we don't expect the truth in a poker game, in the negotiation of the price of a new car or even in the stump speech of a political candidate. We signed up for shadings and hyperbole and some gamesmanship.The key concept here, as usual, is enrollment. If the scientific community is enrolled with you in hearing the factual results of replicable experiments, then it's on you to engage with that honestly. If your co-workers are enrolled to hear the truth about the culture of your organization or the results of a new initiative, the entire system depends on you keeping up your end of the bargain.Living without accurate reporting of results, when it's what we expect, goes far beyond the ethical problem with lying. Like the toxic loans that led to the financial crisis of 2008, when lies are mixed in with the expectation for truth, the system grinds to a halt. We have to spend time filtering instead of actually getting our work done.It's an incredible privilege to have a role where you are expected to tell the truth. Your colleagues are trusting you, letting down their guard and enabling you to contribute highly-leveraged work.It doesn't take much to break that trust and to degrade the efficiency of the entire system.Let's agree, in advance, about what we're going to hear from you.  END"}
{"prompt": "The unfairness (and wisdom) of paint ###", "completion":"Repainting your house the same color it already wasfeels like a waste. It's a lot of effort merely to keep things as they are.But if you don't do it, time and entropy kick in and the house starts to fade.The same can be said for 1,000 elements of your organization, including your relationships with customers, staff, suppliers and technology. The way you approach your market, the skill you bring to your craft, the culture in your organization—it constantly needs another coat of paint.Rust never sleeps.[PS… delighted that I'll be speaking at the upcoming Convertkit event in June in Boise… Hope to see you there.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Empathy is the hard part ###", "completion":"The rest is mechanics. We're not wired to walk in someone else's shoes, it's not our first instinct.Showing up with empathy is difficult, hard to outsource and will wear you out.But it's precisely what we need from you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Taking it for granite ###", "completion":"Look around for a second.Those bedrock institutions, the foundational supports you take for granted–they rarely last forever.Nurturing and investing in the things we need and count on needs to be higher on the agenda.Things that appear to be made of granite rarely are.  END"}
{"prompt": "You go first ###", "completion":"That's the key insight of the peer-to-peer connection economy.Anyone can reach out, anyone can lead, anyone can pick someone else.But if you wait for anyone, it's unlikely to happen.It begins with you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Save as draft ###", "completion":"Is that a habit?If your instinct is to publish, to share, to instruct, to give away, to engage and to put it into the world, then 'save as draft' is a rare thing.On the other hand, if you find yourself noodling then putting aside, waiting for perfect, you're on track to be waiting for a very long time.Ship.[Tomorrow, Thursday April 27 is the first priority deadline for the next session of the altMBA. This is an intensive 30-day workshop that creates the habit of shipping. We help people learn to see, to take action, to make decisions and to cause change to happen. It might just be for you.]  END"}
{"prompt": "And then we got bored ###", "completion":"Six missions after Apollo 11 amazed the world by going to the moon, Apollo17 was the last trip.It fell off the cultural radar. Flying to the moon, driving around and getting back safely wasn't interesting enough, apparently.And the miracle of the internet, which connects billions of people, instantly, is something we all take for granted after less than a generation.Is it any wonder that your magnificent Facebook post or clever tweet isn't racking up ever more likes?  END"}
{"prompt": "You look like you’re lying (when you’re nervous) ###", "completion":"This is a significant bug in our culture and a glitch in our DNA.When we're on the spot, giving a speech, or pulled over by a cop, we get nervous.We sweat, talk too fast, constrict our throat, avoid eye contact, put on a half smile and do many of the things that people often associate with lying.At the same time, because the con man (who might also be a politician or CEO) has figured out how to avoid these telltale signs, we give them the benefit of the doubt and they lie with impunity.If you have good intentions, you have two options: You can either avoid getting nervous (which comes with practice) or you can work on the most obvious symptoms you display, intentionally diminishing them. Actors are better on screen than the rare famous person doinga cameo because the actors have been taught how to read their lines without all the telltale signs of lying. (Of course, reading lines is lying…)If you're using a microphone, use it. No need to brace your body to shout. Talk more slowly. Intentionally make eye contact…And don't lie. But you knew that part.You shouldn't have to practice appearing to be truthful when you're being truthful. But you do. Because we're humans and we're judging you.  END"}
{"prompt": "What does science mean? ###", "completion":"To countless teenagers who had the wrong teacher in high school, it means, a boring collection of right answers, categorized by topic.Once we discover that some things we were taught aren't black and whiteany more (Pluto, DDT, infant formula), it's not surprising that people begin to go from bored to skeptical. About all of it.Except that's not what science is.Science is a process. It's not pretending it has the right answer, it merely has the best process to get closer to that right answer. Science is an ongoing argument, one where you show your work and make a prediction about what's going to happen next.And you're not allowed to have magical faeries. Not allowed to change the explanation based on what just happened. You must begin again, from first principles, and make a new argument, and show new work, and make a better prediction.Science isn't only done in the lab. Every one of us does it at work, daily.Science isn't something to believe or not believe. It's something to do.  END"}
{"prompt": "The best time to study for the test ###", "completion":"… is before it's given.The best time to campaign is before the election.And the best time to keep a customer is before he leaves.  END"}
{"prompt": "Who are we seeking to become? ###", "completion":"We get what we invest in. The time we spend comes back, with interest.If you practice five minutes of new, difficult banjo music every day, you'll become a better banjo player. If you spend a little bit more time each day whining or feeling ashamed, that behavior will become part of you. The words you type, the people you hang with, the media you consume…The difference between who you are now and who you were five years ago is largely due to how you've spent your time along the way.The habits we groove becomewho we are, one minute at a time. A small thing, repeated, is not a small thing.[And the same thing is true for brands, organizations and movements.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Do we have a choice? ###", "completion":"Do what I say vs. Use your best judgment.I'm in charge because I have authority vs. Take responsibility if you care.It's simple and easy but ineffective vs. It's difficult and a bit complex, but you can handle it and it's more likelyto work.It's the same as last time vs. This might not work.Because I said so vs.  Show your work.Here's the kid's menu vs.  Learn to cook.Comply vs.  Question.Consume vs.  Produce.You haven't been picked vs.  It's always your turn.You have no choice vs.  It's always up to you, if you care enough.  END"}
{"prompt": "Choosing your spot ###", "completion":"It's difficult to find the leverage to make a difference. At your job, there are probably people with more experience than you, more domain knowledge than you, even more skills than you. The same is true about your competition.But there's one place where you can make your mark: Your attitude.You can bring more generosity of spirit, more enthusiasm, more kindness, more resilience, more positive energy, more bravery and more magic to the room than anyone else, at least right now. Because you choose to.That can be what you stand for.These aren't soft skills. They're real.  END"}
{"prompt": "An overlooked secret to effectiveness (and happiness) ###", "completion":"Knowing where 'enough' is.More might be better for awhile, but sooner or later, it can'talwaysbe better. Diminishing returns are the law, not an exception.If we look to advertisers, marketers, bosses, doctors, partners and suppliers to tell us when we've reached 'enough', we're almost certainly going to get it wrong.It's okay to stop when you're happy.Is more always better? Sometimes, only better is better…[Chip asked a friend, a professional, how does he know when to stop making things better. His answer, when my budget runs out, is a sad commentary on how some of us think about 'enough'. It might let you off the hook, but as a professional, isn't the hook where you want to be?]  END"}
{"prompt": "In search of familiarity ###", "completion":"Ask someone what they do, and they'll probably talk about where they work. I work in insurance, or even, I work for Aetna.Of course, most of the 47,000 people who work for Aetna don't do anything that's specifically insurance-y. They do security for Building 7, or they answer the phone for someone, or they work in the graphic design department.Most people have been trained to come to work in search of familiarity and competence. To work with familiar people, doing familiar tasks, getting familiar feedback from a familiar boss. Competence is rewarded, coloring inside the lines is something we were taught in kindergarten.People will do a bad (a truly noxious) job for a long time because it feels familiar. Legionsof people will stick with a dying industry because it feels familiar.The reason Kodak failed, it turns out, has nothing to do with grand corporate strategy (the people at the top saw it coming), and nothing to do with technology (the scientists and engineers got the early patents in digital cameras). Kodak failed because it was a chemical company and a bureaucracy, filled with people eager to do what they did yesterday.Change is the unfamiliar.Change creates incompetence.In the face of change, the critical questions that leaders must start with are, Why did people come to work here today? What did they sign up for?That's why it's so difficult to change the school system. Not because teachers and administrators don't care (they do!). It's because changing the school system isn't what they signed up for.The solution is as simple as it is difficult: If you want to build an organization that thrives in change (and on change), hire and train people to do the paradoxical: To discoverthat the unfamiliar is the comfortable familiar they seek. Skiers like going downhill when it's cold, scuba divers like getting wet. That's their comfortable familiar. Perhaps you and your team can view change the same way.  END"}
{"prompt": "Predicting or inventing… ###", "completion":"The most common way to deal with the future is to try to predict it. To be in the right place at the right time with the right skills or investments.A far more successful and reliable approach is to invent the future. Not all of it, just a little part. But enough to make a difference.  END"}
{"prompt": "Microcopy in the age of the glance ###", "completion":"People rarely read to the end. And they almost never spend as much time reading your words as you spend writing them.Which makes it ironic that the little phrases we use (in designing a simple form, or when we answer the phone) matter so much.Being gentle, kind or human goes a long way.Coming across as confident, clear and correct matters as well.Microcopy is word choice. It's a glimpse of a smile or a slip of impatience.When you start putting™ trademark symbols in random spots, using extra exclamation points or (this is the biggest one) adopting a false commanding tone and being a jerk in your writing, then you lose us.We know that you feel like using words like ONLY, NEVER, PERMANENT and NOTICE, but we'd rather hear from someone we like instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "What about endogeneity? ###", "completion":"Ask this question often.Several times a day, at least.Endogeneity is a fancy term for confusing cause and effect. For not being clear about causation and correlation.It's onereason why smart people make so many mistakes. We think A leads to B, so more A gets more B. While A and B may have been related in the past, though, it's not at all clear that improving A is going to do anything about B.There is, for example, an extraordinarily high correlation between per capita cheese consumption and the risk of being strangled by your bedsheets while you sleep: That doesn't mean that eating less cheese is going to help you not die in bed.  END"}
{"prompt": "Lowering the bar ###", "completion":"Raymond Loewy coined the term MAYA to describe Most Advanced Yet Acceptable when it came to futuristic design. The thinking goes that people (the amorphous term for the lumpen masses) won't accept something too advanced, so we ought to lower our standards to gain acceptance.But mass acceptance isn't nearly as important as it used to be. Pockets of commitment and enthusiasm are more important than being tolerated or even accepted by the disinterested masses.Our hunch is that we need to average things down if we don't want to be rejected, that we need to offer a bit less if we're hoping to make change happen. Mostly, we tell ourselves to dumb things down and pander to people who don't pay attention, are afraid of forward motion and don't care much either.But the horizontal nature of information flow means that the opposite is now true. We can be as positive and pure and advanced as we can imagine, and some folks will follow.If we can fall out of love with the quick mass hit, therequirement isn't to lower the bar. It's to make big promises and actually keep them.Would you have it any other way?  END"}
{"prompt": "Facts are not the antidote for doubt ###", "completion":"Drink enough water and you will cease to be thirsty.And yet,a doubting person can be drowning in facts, but factswon’t change a mind that doesn’t want to be changed. More facts don’t counter more doubt. Someone who is shaking hishead, arms folded, eyes squinted and ears closed isn’t going to be swayed by more facts.Instead, doubt surrendersto experience. And experience can only happen if there’s enrollment.If someone is willing to find the right answer, willing to explore what might be effective, what might beconfirmable, then enrolling in thejourney to ease doubt opens the door to personal experience. Which, magically, can let the light in.Experience, working it out, touching it, studying it, repeatedly asking why with an open mind… these experiences engage us, earn our attention and gain our trust.Doubt comes from fear, which is why it’s so difficult to earn enrollment. People don’t want to commit to working their way out of doubt, because doubt is a perversevariationof perceivedsafety, a paralysis in the face of the unknown. Earn enrollment first, a commitment to find a path, then bring on the process and the facts.  END"}
{"prompt": "Choosing your fuel ###", "completion":"Thework is difficult. Overcoming obstacles, facing rejection, exploring the unknown–many of us need a narrative to fuel our forward motion, something to keep us insisting on the next cycle, on better results, on doing work that matters even more.The fuel you choose, though, determines how you will spend your days. You will spend far more time marinating in your fuel than you will actually doing breakthrough work. Richard Feynman was famously motivated by the joy of figuring things out. His scientific journey (which earned him a Nobel Prize) also provided him with truly wonderful days.Here is a partial list, in alphabetical order, of narrativeslight and dark that can serve as fuel to push us to do work that others might walk away from: Avoidance of shame (do this work or you’ll be seen as a fraud/loser/outcast)Becoming a better version of yourselfBig dreams (because you can see it/feel it/taste it)Catastrophe (or the world as we know it will end)Competition (someone is gaining on you)Compliance (the boss/contract says I have to, and even better, there’s a deadline)Connection (because others will joinin)Creative itch (the voice inside of you wants to be expressed)Dissatisfaction (because it’s not good enough as it is)Engineer (because there’s a problem to be solved)Fame (imagining life is better on the other side)Generosity (because it’s a chance to contribute)It’s a living (pay the writer)Peer pressure (the reunion is coming up)Possibility (because we can, and it’ll be neat to see how it works in the world)Professionalism (because it’s what we do)Revenge (you’ll show the naysayers)Selection (to get in, win the prize, be chosen)Unhappiness (because the only glimmer of happiness comes from the next win, after all,we’re not good enough as is) They all work. Some of them leave you wrecked, some create an environment of possibility and connection and joy. Up to you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Two confusions ###", "completion":"Those things you're bad at? You're not nearly as bad at them as you fear.And those things you're great at? Probably not nearly as good as you hope.We beat ourselves up a lot, but often focus on the wrong areas, avoiding the soft spots and doubling down on the places where we are well armored.Mirrors are a fairly new invention. For millennia, we had little idea what we looked like. And only in the last two generations have people had any clue about what they sounded like. Today, even though we're surrounded by sound, video and light reflecting on us, not to mention comments and the social media maelstrom, we're still quite bad at self-judgment.You're better than you think you are.  END"}
{"prompt": "Four ways to improve customer service ###", "completion":"Delegate it to your customers. Let them give feedback, good and bad, early and often.Delegate it to your managers. Build in close monitoring, training and feedback. Have them walk the floor, co-creating with their teams.Use technology. Monitor digital footprints, sales per square foot, visible customer actions.Create a culture where peers inspire peers, in which each employee acts like a leader, pushing the culture forward. People like us do things like this. People like us, care. You've probably guessed that the most valuable one, the fourth, is also far and away the most difficult to create. Culture is a posture that lasts. It's corroded by shortcuts and by inattention, and fed by constant investment and care.Big company or small, it doesn't matter. There are government agencies and tiny non-profits that have a culture of care and service. And then there are the rest…  END"}
{"prompt": "Creating discomfort ###", "completion":"If you're seeking to create positive change in your community, it's almost certain you'll be creating discomfort as well.Want to upgrade the local playground? It sounds like it will be universally embraced by parents and everyone who cares about kids. Except that you now bring up issues of money, of how much is enough, of safety. Change is uncomfortable.It's way easier to talk about today'sweather, or what you had for lunch.Usually, when we're ready to launch something, we say, this is going to help people, this is well crafted, I'm proud of it.What's a lot more difficult (but useful) is to say all of that plus, and this is going to make (some) people uncomfortable.  END"}
{"prompt": "Worth reconsidering? ###", "completion":"The status quo is powerful indeed. We add layers, patches and small improvisations, all to shore up something we don't want to reconsider.If we had a clean sheet of paper, and could design something that actually worked, what would we do about: Big-time college sportsSchool taxes based on location, and school spending based on incomeDevelopment costs, transparency and patents related to pharmaceuticalsThe Electoral College and gerrymanderingAllocation of electromagnetic spectrumStagnant oligopoliesWhat's taxed and what's notSchool curriculumOnline identityInfrastructure priorities The free market doesn't always do things as well as anenlightened institution can. And institutions often need our help to become more enlightened.Sometimes, we need to take a deep breath anddecide to do it again, better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Training customers ###", "completion":"If you frequently run last-minute sales, don't be surprised if your customers stop buying things in advance. You're training them to wait.If you announce things six or seven times, getting louder each time, don't be surprised if your customers ignore the first few announcements. You've trained them to expect you'll yell if it's important.If you don't offer someone a raise until they find a new job and quit, don't be surprised if your employees start looking for new jobs.The way you engage with your customers (students/bosses/peers) trains them on what to expect from interactions with you.Drip, drip, drip.  END"}
{"prompt": "Better than it needs to be ###", "completion":"Why not?Why not make it more generous, more fair, more insightful than it needs to be? Why not deliver the service with more flair, more care and more urgency?Why not do it because you can, not because you have to…  END"}
{"prompt": "You are more powerful than you think ###", "completion":"Highlights from an annotated list of 17 rules for the new world of work:You are more powerful than you thinkIt’s bigger than youLeaders are made, not bornLeveling up is a choiceThey say you can’t, we know you canDance with fearSee, assert, changeOverwhelmed is temporaryOut loud, in publicHard work is far better than busy workThe crowd is wrong. The critics are wrong. Useful feedback is precious…Management matters. So does leadership…Here, I made this. Or possibly, Here, we made this.See the end before you begin the journeyCulture defeats everythingIt’s personalApplications are now open for the next two sessions of the proven altMBA workshop. It’s time to level up.  END"}
{"prompt": "Is judgment involved? ###", "completion":"No judgment, no responsibility.No responsibility, no risk.There's a fork in the road. If you seek out roles without responsibility, you might just find a sinecure.This is the hot job for undifferentiated job seekers at the placement office, the job where a famous company will tell you what to do all day.Alas, those are the jobs that will be deleted first. The jobs that come with little in the way of respect or stability. These are the jobs that big companies automate whenever they can, or create enough rules to avoid any variation if they can't.The other choice is a job loaded with judgment calls. One where it's extremely likely you'll make a decision you regret, and get blamed for it. One where you take responsibility instead of waiting for authority.It turns out that those are the best jobs of all.[PS if you're organizing for social good, consider applying for this free program from Civic Hall in New York. I hope to see you there.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Staring at the numbers ###", "completion":"Sometimes, you can learn a lot by watching. But not always.An alien observing our behavior in elevators would note that most of the time, a person gets in, approaches the front corner, leaves that corner, goes to the back and then stands silently, staring at the numbers above the door.Only one of those actions is actually required. If you don't push the button (or have someone push it for you) nothing happens. The rest—the moving to the back, standing silently and most of all, staring at the numbers—it's just for show, a cultural tradition.Most practices work this way. From eating in restaurants to marketing, we add all sorts of extraneous motion to our effort. Which is fine, unless you don't understand which ones actually matter to the outcome.Too often, we train people in the motions without giving them understanding. Then, when the world changes, we're stuck staring at the numbers going by, unable to find the insight to push a new kind of button.  END"}
{"prompt": "Worth being afraid of ###", "completion":"We're pretty good at finding demons to be afraid of. The other.The one in the shadows.Change.The family member we can't possibly please.Competition.Critics.The invisible network of foes conspiring against us and what we stand for. It turns out, though, that the one who usually lets us down is us.Our unwillingness to leap, to commit, to trust our own abilities.It's the internal narrative that seeks disaster just as much as it craves reassurance.That's the one we ought to be vilifying, fortifying ourselves against and frightened of.It gets less powerful once we are brave enough to look it in the eye.  END"}
{"prompt": "Anti-glib: Knowing what you’re talking about ###", "completion":"Glibness is a disease that's particularly virulent in Silicon Valley, politics, entertainment and the executive suite. Someone has an insight (or gets lucky) and then amasses power. Surrounded by more than they're willing to understand, they substitute the glib statement, the smirk, the cutting remark. They turn everything into a status-fueled professional wrestling match.It's usually done out of fear, and, ironically, the fear-induced glib approach merely makes things worse, creating even more fear.The alternative is to know what you're talking about.To have done the reading. [I've seen this problem in boardrooms, examination rooms and classrooms across the planet].To be able to hold conflicting ideas in your head as you consider options.To know and respect the people who have earned a place at the table of ideas.To have energetic engagements with people who are more experienced, wiser and more connected than you are.To admit that you were wrong, because you didn't know what you know now, and then to chart a new path.To ignore sunk costs when making new decisions.The fans of professional wrestling (in all its forms) are entertained by the glib, because it releases them from the obligation to understand metaphor, to look more deeply, to engage with a logical argument.Everyone else would rather work with people who know what they're talking about, who respect those they work with and most of all, who seek useful outcomes, not just the comfort of a short-term win.[More here and here]  END"}
{"prompt": "You’ve arrived ###", "completion":"It's easy to fall in love with the GPS version of the universe.There, just ahead, after that curve. Drive a little further, your destination is almost here.Done. You've arrived.Of course, that's not how it works. Not our careers, not our relationships, not our lives.You've always arrived. You've never arrived.Wherever you go, there you are. You're never going to arrive because you're already there.There's no division between the painful going and the joyous arriving. If we let it, the going can be the joyful part.It turns out that arrival isn't the point, it can't be, because we spend all our time on the journey.  END"}
{"prompt": "My side, right or wrong ###", "completion":"The alternative is, My side is wrong this time, but we can learn a lot, fix it, and do it better next time.Which path gets us (however you want to define 'us') closer to what we seek?Which leads to better standards, desired outcomes and work we're proud of?Which leads to leaders we can eagerly follow?Tribal identity is an emotional reaction to a complicated world. But when tribal identity aligns itself with a downward spiral of selfish, poorly considered actions, it leads to suffering, not connection.Not us vs. them. Sooner or later, it's us.We can do better. Let's do better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Ocellate ###", "completion":"It means eye-like as in the spot on a stingray that makes it appear to be looking at you.As far as I know, there are no words for nose-like or even ear-like.We're hardwired to be aware of eyes. We want to be seen, we're afraid to be seen, we need to be seen.The very best way to engage with your customers is for your organization to develop some more eyes. And the empathy to use them. Not to spy on us, but to see us, understand us and treat us the way we want to be treated—like people.  END"}
{"prompt": "He deserves it, but do you? ###", "completion":"He's a jerk, a two-timer, a double-crosser. He deserves everything you throw at him, your cutting remarks, your sarcasm, your enmity.You're totally justified in spending a lot of time and energy in evening the score. You are the avenger.The thing is, it's not clear that webenefit from carrying around all that vitriol. All the time we spend hating is time that we've given away to someone who hasn't earned our time. It's time we're being controlled by someone we don't like or respect very much.Teaching someone a lesson is often overrated. Doing the lesson teachingin your head helps no one.What happens if we walk away and make something magical instead?You deserve it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Sham surgery ###", "completion":"The data shows that more than 600,000 people got arthroscopic knee surgery in the US in 2010. It's expensive and painful.It turns out that sham surgery works just as well. That just about as many people would have found pain relief from this procedure if they had experienced fake surgery instead.In an extensive study of elective surgeries (asthma, obesity, Parkinson’s disease, acid reflux and back pain) it was found that more than half the time, people would have had at least a good an outcome if they had only experienced fake surgery instead of the real kind.That's worth a pause.Same operating room, same gowns, same perception of pain–but no actual surgery. Half the people would have gotten better, which is awfully close to the number that got better from the real thing.(Even if this number is twice as high as you are comfortable with, it tells us something dramatic about the power of suggestion).If you don't think marketing works, and you're wondering about the power of the placebo, that's all the evidence you should need. That sham surgery on knee pain is virtually as effective as the real kind. Which means it's not a sham at all, is it?Of course, placebos work on far more than knees. They work on the taste of wine, the effectiveness of coaching and how well we perform at work.When they say it's all in your head, they're actually being optimistic and encouraging. If it's in your head, you can do something about it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Last call for The Marketing Seminar, summer edition ###", "completion":"We teach modern marketing.Marketing that doesn't involve spam or tricks or hype. Marketing that sees a world bigger than you currently serve, and a market small enough to actually care about what you make. And marketing that isn't defined by spending all day in social media, pitching average stuff to the masses.The sprint is on, and we're hoping you can consider enrolling in the only currently scheduled session of the Seminar. If you were waiting, today's the day.Find out more here. And see the curriculumas well as honest feedback from our students. We've just started our session, and since we're now three lessons in, it's only open for signups for a few more days.I hope you can join us.  END"}
{"prompt": "Cultural density ###", "completion":"In your organization, how many decisions and interactions are driven by culture first?While it's possible to imagine an organization that has no culture, one that is merely a context-free meritocracy and game-theory driven machine, that's unlikely.The higher your cultural density, the more important it is that you get it right.  END"}
{"prompt": "Be the different one ###", "completion":"Leonard Nimoy created one of our culture's singular fictional characters. Gene Roddenberry gave him the opportunity, but it was Nimoy who developed Spock.A key moment came in one of the first episodes. Everyone on the bridge was freaking out about something or other, and Spock's line was a simple word: Fascinating.Nimoy first delivered it in the same excited, scared tone as everyone else.The director took him aside and said, be the different one.Easy to say, difficult to do.By being the different one, Spock became a character for the ages, and changed the center of gravity for the series' narrative.The same thing could be said for your career, or the impact your organization makes.[PS James Hunt just built a very generous site, one that catalogs nearly 250 books written or recommended by me over the last decade.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Instead of the easy numbers… ###", "completion":"What is it that you hope to accomplish? Not what you hope to measure as a result of this social media strategy/launch, but to actually change, create or build?An easy but inaccurate measurement will only distract you. It might be easy to calibrate, arbitrary and do-able, but is that the purpose of your work?I know that there's a long history of a certain metric being a stand-in for what you really want, but perhaps that metric, even though it's tried, might not be true. Perhaps those clicks, views, likes and grps are only there because they're easy, not relevant.If you and your team can agree on the goal, the real goal, they might be able to help you with the journey…System innovations almost always involve rejecting the standard metrics as a first step in making a difference. When you measure the same metrics, you're likely to create the same outcomes. But if you can see past the metrics to the results, it's possible to change the status quo.  END"}
{"prompt": "Resilience and the high end ###", "completion":"The high end is brittle, unstable and thus, expensive.The car that wins a race, the wine that costs $300, the stereo that sounds like the real thing… The restaurant that serves perfect fruit, the artisan who uses rare tools and years of training…If there was a reliable, easy, repeatable way to produce these outputs, we'd all do it and the high end would be normal.What makes something pure enough, optimized enough and fast enough to defeat the other 99.9% is that it doesn't always work. It is far more sensitive to inputs. It's dangerous…Maybe you don't need carbon fiber wheels. Maybe you merely need a reliable way to get from here to there at a reasonable price.The high end is magic, but magic isn't reliable. On purpose. That's what makes it magic.  END"}
{"prompt": "Fear of escalation ###", "completion":"In any organization of more than two people, there's the opportunity to escalate a problem.When the software doesn't work, or the customer is in a jam or something's going sideways, you can hand the problem up the chain. Escalation not only brings more horsepowerto the problem, but it spreads the word within the organization. And, even better, it keeps you from losing the customer.Here's the thing: at some point, organizations start training their peoplenot to escalate. They fear staff will cry wolf, or they get tired of pitching in.The moment this happens is the moment you begin to give up on your customers.Either give your front line the power to fix things, on the spot, or encourage them to call for help when it's needed.  END"}
{"prompt": "I got it! ###", "completion":"The secret of the fly ball is that you don't shout, you've got it.It's not up to us to assign who will catch it. If you can catch it, you call it.The thing about responsibility is that it's most effectively taken, not given.  END"}
{"prompt": "Marketing about power and with power ###", "completion":"Often overlooked is the decision every marketer makes about how they will treat the issue of power (asymmetrical or not) in their marketing.Consider insurance. Companies like Allstate don't market themselves as the dominant force in the relationship. They don't say, you give us money every month for a very long time, and one day, if we think it's a good idea, we'll give you some money back. Instead, they say, you're in good hands. Insurance is here to take care of you.That's pretty different from the power dynamic we see implicit in the marketing ofHarley Davidson motorcycles. Buying one makes you James Dean. They give you power over others. Luxury brands promise a similar result in certain social situations.Horror movies don't promise an equitable experience. You sit there, they scare you.There's some part of our culture that wants to be told what to do by a powerful autocrat.Microsoft made a lot of enemies (and friends) when they had monopoly power. The message to users and even to partners was, We're in charge and you have no choice… here's what's next. A large portion of the market responds well to that message. It takes the pressure off decision making and eases responsibility (it can't be your fault if you had no options). Apple is starting to adopt that power mantra with their approach to upgrades and new models.The new Microsoft, of course, puts the user's power first. Different strategy for a different audience.Every brand gets to make this choice, pick one of three: We have the power over youYou have the power over your choices and your competitorsOur products and services give everyone power Famous colleges market with straight-up power. We have the power to choose you, to grade you, to give you a magic diploma. And in response, millions of kids send in their applications. In fact, they often avoid the alternative (less famous) schools that instead of power, ask, how can we help you?Many businesses prefer to buy things when they have no choice. They not only respect the power of the big auditing firms or the race toserve a search engine or a social network, they actually seek it out. It focuses the attention of the bureaucracy and offers the promise of rapid forward motion with little responsibility on the part of the client.A lot of freelancers, on the other hand, have been beaten down so often that they can't imagine projecting power, instead only offering to serve those that do.Danny Meyer has built a restaurant empire around the idea that customers ought to be powerful. Instead of bullying his patrons, he trains his people to serve. No velvet rope, just a smile.Each of us gets to choose what sort of marketing we respond to. Those that use bully tactics to gain power over us only get away with it because it works (on some people, some of the time). And often, when power is put into our hands (sometimes known as freedom… the freedom to create, to speak up, to lead, to challenge), we blink and walk away.Some people persist in thinking that marketing is about ads or low prices. It's not. It's about human nature and promises and who we see when we look in the mirror.When you see confusion, look for fear, and look for the dynamics of power.  END"}
{"prompt": "The toxic antidote to goodwill ###", "completion":"Anyone who has done the math will tell you that word of mouth is the most efficient way to gain trust, spread the word and grow.And yet…It only takes a moment to destroy. Only a few sentences, a heartless broken promise, a lack of empathy, and it's gone. Not only that, but the lost connection can easily lead to lawsuits.Doctor, the surgery seems to have gone wrong!It's not my fault. I did a perfect job. Tough luck.Architect, the floor is sagging, the beams were put in the wrong direction!I don't care. There's a three-year statute of limitations, and even then, it wasn't my job to ensure that the work met the plans.Airline, my two-year-old can't sit in a row by herself, and the agent on the phone said you'd work it so we could sit together!It's not my fault. If you don't want to get on the plane, don't get on the plane.In all three cases, there are significant operational barriers to magically fixing the problem. But that's not where the breakdown happened. It happened because a human being decided to not care. Not care and not express anything that felt like caring.A human being, perhaps intimidated by lawyers, or tired after a hard day, or the victim of a bureaucracy (all valid reasons) then made the stupid decision to not care.By not caring, by not expressing any empathy, this individual denied themselves their own humanity. By putting up a brick wall, they isolate themselves. Not only do they destroy any hope for word of mouth, they heap disrespect on someone else. By working so hard to not engage (in the vain hope that this will somehow keep them clean), they end up in the mud, never again to receive the benefit of the doubt.What kind of day or week or career is that? To live in a lucite bubble, keeping track only of individuals defeated and revenue generated?It turns out that while people like to have their problems fixed, what they most want is to be seen and to be cared about.Of course you should use these fraught moments to reinforce connections and build word of mouth. Of course you should realize that in fact people like us get asked to recommend airlines and doctors and architects all the time, but now, we will never ever recommend you to anyone, in fact, we'll go out of our way to keep people from choosing you.But the real reason you should extend yourself in these moments when it all falls apart is that this is how you will measure yourself over time. What did you do when you had a chance to connect and to care?  END"}
{"prompt": "What you know vs. what you do ###", "completion":"In 1995, my book packaging company published one of its last titles, an anachronism called, Presenting Digital Cash. It was the first book on digital cash ever aimed at a mass audience. And it was ahead of its time, selling (fortunately) very few copies. The examples in the book were current, but it was soon outdated. (The foreword was written by Neal Stephenson—someone who is ahead of his time for a living).Thirteen long years later, Bitcoin was introduced to the world. I didn't invent it, even though I'd written about digital cash more than a decade before. I'd created an entire book about digital cash, and thought about it deeply for months.Except I didn't buy 1,000 dollars worth of Bitcoin in 2008. If I had, I'd have more than $40,000,000 today.It's not that I didn't know.It's that I didn't act.Two different things.I knew, but I didn't know for sure. Not enough to act.All the good stuff happens when we act even if we don't know for sure.  END"}
{"prompt": "Did you publish? ###", "completion":"They (whoever 'they' is) made it easy for you to raise your hand. They made it easy for you to put your words online, your song in the cloud, your building designs, business plans and videos out in the world. They made it easy for you to be generous, to connect, and to lead.Did you?Maybe today's the day.  END"}
{"prompt": "Don’t forget the second step ###", "completion":"The first step is learning how to do it. Finding and obtaining the insight and the tools and the techniques you need. Understanding how it works.But step two is easily overlooked. Step two is turning it into a habit. Committing to the practice. Showing up and doing it again and again until you're good at it, and until it's part of who you are and what you do.Most education, most hardware stores, most technology purchases, most doctor visits, most textbooks are about the first step. What a shame that we don't invest just a little more to turn the work into a habit.  END"}
{"prompt": "Rejection (and the four paths) ###", "completion":"If you seek to make change or do something important, your work will be rejected along the way. This is not in dispute.What will you do after that? Determine that what actually happened was that you were rejected, not your proposal, and that you have no right, no standing and no hope. Decide to back off, keep your head low and do what you're told from now on.Realize that what might have happened is that you asked the wrong person, who wants something other than what you want. Resolve to do a better job of seeing where your work will be needed and recognized.Understand that you didn't tell a story that resonated, that your homework, your details, your promise–something didn't resonate. Figure out what it was, and learn to do better next time.Assume that whoever turns you down, ignores you or disagrees with you is a dolt. Learn nothing and persist. In my experience, paths two and three are the most likely to get you where you're going. It takes grit and resilience to avoid the first path, and the fourth path is reserved for megalomaniacs, bullies and the terminally frustrated.  END"}
{"prompt": "The market for used eclipse sunglasses ###", "completion":"It doesn't matter how many you have.It doesn't matter how much you paid for them.It doesn't matter how long the line was yesterday…The market is gone. It's a sunk cost. Falling in love with what you have and reminding yourself of what it cost you is no help at all.The same goes for the value of the assets we invested in, the rare skills we used to possess, the position in the marketplace we worked so hard to get.New days require new decisions.  END"}
{"prompt": "Looking for a friend (or a fight) ###", "completion":"If you gear up, put yourself on high alert and draw a line in the sand, it's likely you'll find the enemy you seek.On the other hand, expecting that the next person you meet will be as open to possibility as you are might just make it happen.  END"}
{"prompt": "Facing the inner critic ###", "completion":"Part of his power comes from the shadows.We hear his voice, we know it by heart. He announces his presence with a rumble and he runs away with a wisp of smoke.But again and again, we resist looking him in the eye, fearful of how powerful he is. We're afraid that like the gorgon, he will turn us to stone. (I'm using the male pronoun, but the critic is a she just as often).He's living right next to our soft spot, the (very) sore place where we store our shame, our insufficiency, our fraudulent nature. And he knows all about it, and pokes us there again and again.As Steve Chapman points out in his generous TEDx talk, it doesn't have to be this way. We can use the critic as a compass, as a way to know if we're headed in the right direction.Pema Chödrön tells the story of inviting the critic to sit for tea. To welcome him instead of running.It's not comfortable, but is there any other way? The sore spot is unprotectable. The critic only disappears when we cease to matter. They go together.We can dance with him, talk with him, welcome him along for a long, boring car ride. Suddenly, he's not so dangerous. Sort of banal, actually.There is no battle to win, because there is no battle. The critic isn't nearly as powerful as you are, not if you are willing to look him in the eye.  END"}
{"prompt": "The crisp meeting ###", "completion":"A $30,000 software package is actually $3,000 worth of software plus $27,000 worth of meetings.And most clients are bad at meetings. As a result, so are many video developers, freelance writers, conference organizers, architects and lawyers.If you’re a provider, the analysis is simple: How much faster, easier and better-constructed would your work be if you began the work with all the meetings already done, with the spec confirmed, with the parameters clear?Well, if that’s what you need, build it on purpose.The biggest difference between great work and pretty-good work are the meetings that accompanied it.The crisp meeting is one of a series. It’s driven by purpose and intent. It’s guided by questions:Who should be in the room?What’s the advance preparation we ought to engage in? (at least an hour for every meeting that’s worth holding).What’s the budget?What’s the deadline?What does the reporting cycle look like–dates and content and responsibilities?Who is the decision maker on each element of the work?What’s the model–what does a successful solution look like?Who can say no, who can change the spec, who can adjust the budget?When things go wrong, what’s our approach to fixing them?What constitutes an emergency, and what is the cost (in time, effort and quality) of stopping work on the project to deal with the emergency instead?Is everyone in the room enrolled in the same project, or is part of the project to persuade the nay-sayers?If it’s not going to be a crisp meeting, the professional is well-advised to not even attend.It’s a disappointing waste of time, resources and talent to spend money to work on a problem that actually should be a conversation first.  END"}
{"prompt": "The under (and the over) achiever ###", "completion":"It doesn't matter what the speed limit is. He's going to drive five miles slower.And it doesn't matter to the guy in the next car either… he's going to drive seven miles faster.It's not absolute, it's relative.The person wearing the underachiever hat (it's temporary and he's a volunteer) will get a C+ no matter how difficult the course is. And the person who measures himself against the prevailing standard will find a way to get an A+, even if he has to wheedle or cut corners to get it.When leading a team, it's tempting to slow things down for the people near the back of the pack. It doesn't matter, though. They'll just slow down more. They like it back there. In fact, if your goal is to get the tribe somewhere, it pays to speed up, not slow down. They'll catch up.  END"}
{"prompt": "Unbridled ###", "completion":"There's a school of thought that argues that markets are the solution to everything. That money is the best indication of value created. That generating maximum value for shareholders is the only job. That the invisible hand of the market is the best scorekeeper and allocator. How much money can you make? is the dominant question.And frequently, this money-first mindset is being matched with one that says that any interference in the market is unnecessary and inefficient. That we shouldn't have the FDA, that businesses should be free to discriminate on any axis , that a worker's rights disappear at the door of the factory or the customer's at the lunch counter–if you don't like it, find a new job, a new business to patronize, the market will adjust.Taken together, this financial ratchet creates a harsh daily reality. The race to the bottom kicks in, and even those that would ordinarily want to do more, contribute more and care more find themselves unable to compete, because the ratchet continues to turn.The problem with a race to the bottom is that you might win. Worse, you could come in second.There are no capitalist utopias. No country and no market where unfettered capitalism creates the best possible outcome. Not one. They suffer from smog, from a declining state of education and health, and most of all, from too little humanity. Every time that the powerful tool of capitalism makes things better it succeeds because it works within boundaries.It's worth noting that no unbridled horse has ever won an important race.The best way for capitalism to do its job is for its proponents to insist on clear rules, fairly enforced. To insist that organizations not only enjoy the benefits of what they create, but bear the costs as well. To fight against cronyism and special interests, and on behalf of workers, of communities and education. That's a ratchet that moves in the right direction.Civilization doesn't exist to maximize capitalism. Capitalism exists to maximize civilization.  END"}
{"prompt": "On the danger of saying something for the first time ###", "completion":"That's rare air, with no support, no foundation.Like the coyote, running of a cliff in pursuit of the roadrunner…What could be more important?When we synthesize and invent and leap, we create a rare sort of value.  END"}
{"prompt": "#perfect ###", "completion":"Nothing ever is. Nothing is flawless, optimized and suitable for everyone.Instead, all we can hope for is, the best we could hope for, under the circumstances.But, because there are circumstances, whatever happens is exactly what the circumstances created. Whatever is happening now is what's going to happen now. There's no way to change it. Perhaps we can change tomorrow, or even the next moment, but this moment–it's exactly what it was supposed to be, precisely what the circumstances demanded.Which, if we're going to be truthful about it, is perfect.In the long run, we can work to change the circumstances. We can start today, right now. We must. It's the only way to make perfect better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Constructive dissatisfaction ###", "completion":"It's never been easier to findways to be disappointed in our performance. You can compare your output, your income, your success rate to a billion people around the globe… many of whom are happy to exaggerate to make you even more disappointed.It's hardly worth your trouble.The exception is the dissatisfaction that is based on a legitimate comparison, one that gives you insight on how to improve and motivates you to get better.Get clear about the change you're trying to make and, if it's useful, compare yourself to others that are on the same path as you are.If the response rate to your website is lower than your competitor's, take a look at what they're doing and learn from it.If your time in the hundred-yard dash is behind that of the person to your left, analyze the video of their run, step by step, and figure out what you're missing.You can always find someone who is cuter, happier or richer than you. (Or appears to be). That's pointless.But if you can find some fuel to help you reach your goals, not their goals, have at it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your fast car ###", "completion":"Right there, in your driveway, is a really fast car. And here are the keys. Now, go drive it.Right there, in your hand, is a Chicago Pneumatics 0651 hammer. You can drive a nail through just about anything with it, again and again if you choose. Time to use it.And here's a keyboard, connected to the entire world. Here's a publishing platform you can use to interact with just about anyone, just about any time, for free. You wanted a level playing field, one where you have just as good a shot as anyoneelse? Here it is. Do the work.That's what we're all counting on.For you to do the work.  END"}
{"prompt": "In search of competition ###", "completion":"The busiest Indian restaurants in New York City are all within a block or two of each other.Books sell best in bookstores, surrounded by other books, their ostensible competitors.And it's far easier to sell a technology solution if you're not the only one pioneering the category.Competition is a signal. It means that you're offering something that's not crazy. Competition gives people reassurance. Competition makes it easier to get your point across. Competition helps us understand that people like us do things like this.If you have no competition, time to find some.  END"}
{"prompt": "Machine unreadable ###", "completion":"More and more, we create our work to be read by a machine.SEO specialists tell you how to write a blog post that Google will like. Your resumé needs to have the right keywords to get tagged. Everything has an ISBN, an ASIN or a catalog number. Ideas become data become databases…We did the same thing when assembly lines started up. Every part had to be the same size, the cogs in the system were less important than the system itself.Being machine readable might feel like a shortcut to getting where you're going. After all, fitting in as a machine-readable cog into the database of ideas gets you a faster start. But it's also the best way to be ignored, because you've chosen to be one of the many, an idea that's easy to pigeonhole and then ignored.What happens if your work becomes machine unreadable?So new we don't have a slot for it.So unpredictable that we can't ignore it.So important that we have to stop feeding the database and start paying attention instead…  END"}
{"prompt": "The thing about maps ###", "completion":"Sometimes, when we're lost, we refuse a map, even when offered.Because the map reminds us that we made a mistake. That we were wrong.But without a map, we're not just wrong, we're also still lost.A map doesn't automatically get you home, but it will probably make you less lost.(When dealing with the unknown, it's difficult to admit that there might not be a map. In those cases, a compass is essential, a way to remind yourself of your true north…)  END"}
{"prompt": "Impostor syndrome ###", "completion":"It's rampant.The big reason is that we're all impostors. You're not imagining that you're an impostor, it's likely that you are one.Everyone who is doing important work is working on something that might not work. And it's extremely likely that they're also not the very best qualified person on the planet to be doing that work.How could it be any other way? The odds that a pure meritocracy chose you and you alone to inhabit your spot on the ladder is worthy of Dunning-Kruger status. You've been getting lucky breaks for a long time. We all have.Yes, you're an impostor. So am I and so is everyone else. Superman still lives on Krypton and the rest of us are just doing our best.Isn't doing your best all you can do? Dropping the narrative of the impostor isn't arrogant, it's merely a useful way to get your work done without giving into Resistance.Time spent fretting about our status as impostors is time away from dancing with our fear, from leading and from doing work that matters.  END"}
{"prompt": "On being a good driver ###", "completion":"The best drivers are unremarkable. Their actions are predictable. The drive is unexciting. They get from here to there with a minimum amount of fuss.A good driver fits in, all the way.It's entirely possible to drive your career this way, your day at work, the interactions you have.The alternative is to understand that the opposite of good driving at work isn't crashing. The opposite is leaping. Connecting, changing things.Don't do it in your car, but consider trying it at your keyboard.  END"}
{"prompt": "Money for nothing ###", "completion":"A friend asked me for some ways to make money. (All direct quotes).Can I do okay taking those surveys where they pay me?What about buying or trading shirts from Supreme and then selling them?Do you think I can get paid $50 an hour to be a dog walker?Is listening to some famous person and investing in an ICO a shortcut to riches?The thing is, almost all the easy shortcuts are taken. And the problem is that the ones that aren’t taken are hiding really well among a forest of scams and ripoffs. [Please read this before you invest in any ICO or Bitcoin-related offering. Run away!]Or how about,How can I get an agent for my screenplay, orWhere do I find a publisher who will pay me a big advance for my first novel?Your best work isn’t nothing, it’s the heart of what you have to offer. Finding the long, difficult way is worth the journey, because it’s the best way to get what you deserve.  END"}
{"prompt": "Important, popular or viral ###", "completion":"Important work is easily dismissed by the audience. It involves change and risk and thought.Popular work resonates with the people who already like what you do.Viral work is what happens when the audience can't stop talking about what you did.Every once in awhile, all three things will co-exist, but odds are, you're going to need to choose.  END"}
{"prompt": "Reverso g-h-o-s-t (off topic) ###", "completion":"This is my favorite game.It doesn’t involve a board, there are no cards and it’s free to play. It works for two to six players. You can do it in a car or a plane, it works great for two, and if you’re kind, you can play it with someone less skilled than you. The more you play, the deeper and more fun the strategies go.I thought I’d share the rules here, because more g-h-o-s-t is good g-h-o-s-t.Summary: Go around the circle of players and each person adds a letter to a spoken string, striving to not be the person who actually makes the string of letters into a word.Players go one at a time, in order. Of course, you can sit anywhere you like. When each player has taken his or her turn, begin again with the first player.To play a round, someone says a letter. The next person in the order has to add a letter to the first, beginning a word. For example, the first person might begin by saying, y and then, the next person could say, o. The third could say u because three letters don’t count as a word.Beginning with the fourth letter, the goal is to not complete the word. So, if the letters are y-o-u from the first three players, the fourth player shouldn’t say r because that would make a word. But it’s fine to say t.If, on your turn, you are stuck and there’s no choice but to say a letter that completes a word (in this case, h), you lose the round. Every time you lose a round, you get stuck with another letter in the word ‘ghost’, hence the name of the game. If you lose five rounds, you’re out of the game. The last person left, wins.If you lose a round, it’s your turn to start the next round by picking a new letter.Okay, three simple complications: The letter you say has to create a possible word. So if the string is, y-o-u, you can’t say, x. (Unless you’re bluffing, see rule 2).If the person before you says a letter that you believe is impossible, you can challenge their play. If they can respond with a legal word, you lose the round. If they can’t, because they were bluffing or in error, they lose the round.No proper nouns, no contractions, no hyphens, no acronyms, no abbreviations. These words don’t exist in the game. And the big complication, the one that changes everything and makes this a game for the ages:Once you get the hang of it, the group can play reverso. This means that when it’s your turn, you’re allowed to add a letter before the string, if you choose, instead of after. So now, words can be built in either direction, and game becomes magical.‘y-o-u’ can now become ‘a-y-o-u’ and then ‘b-a-y-o-u’.‘r-d-s-c-r’ for example, isn’t worth challenging, because ‘hardscrabble’ is a word.If you want to play reverso g-h-o-s-t as a finite game, with thrown elbows and strategy, it makes a terrific two-player game.If you want to play it as an infinite game, setting up friends and family to do ever better, a game that never ends and has wordcraft and humor to it, you can do that as well. PS Olivia has a new version that uses cards.[A suggestion from Jim F.: I would offer an amendment to the game of Ghost as we play it in my family. When a player receives their fifth letter, they are no longer part of the spelling, but they remain in the game by becoming a ghost. Any active player who speaks to a Ghost receives an additional letter each time they speak to a Ghost. Ghosts are motivated to get active players to speak to them, and thus are not eliminated but adopt a new role.]Have fun.  END"}
{"prompt": "Degrees of freedom ###", "completion":"All you have to do is look around to realize just how many choices westill have. What to eat, who to speak to, what to do for a living, what to learn, what to say, who to contribute to, how weinteract, what westand for…The safe and comfortable path is to pretend that we'reblocked at every turn.But most of the turns, we don't even see. We've trained ourselves to ignore them.A habit is not the same as no choice. And a choice isn't often easy. In fact, the best ones rarely are.But we can still choose to make one.  END"}
{"prompt": "Date certain ###", "completion":"Some work is best shipped when it's done.Most of the time, though, we produce useful, important work on time. When it's due.If you're having trouble shipping, it might because you've hesitated to put a date on it. Soon is a very different concept than, 11:00 am.If it's important enough to spend your day on, to pin your dreams on, to promise to yourself and others, it's probably important enough to guarantee a ship date.  END"}
{"prompt": "Stuntvertising ###", "completion":"The math has changed.It used to be, you paid money to run an ad. A little piece of media, bought and paid for. The audience came with the slot.Today, of course, the ad is free to run. Post your post, upload your video. Free.What to measure, then?Well, one thing to measure is attention. How many likes or shares or views did it get?But if you're going to optimize for attention, not trust or results or contribution, then you're on a very dangerous road.It's pretty easy to get attention by running down the street naked (until everyone else does it). But that's not going to accomplish your goals.When Oreo gets attention for a tweet or Halotop for a horrible ad, they're pulling a stunt, not contributing to their mission.Yes, the alternative is more difficult. It doesn't come with a quick hit or big numbers. But it understands what it's for. An effective ad is far more valuable than a much-noticed one.  END"}
{"prompt": "How much does it cost? ###", "completion":"It depends.Before we can even begin to discuss the price (how much to charge), it's important to understand what something costs to make. And the answer isn't always obvious.If you want to know how much it costs to make the first one, to scale the operation up, to get the machinery, the systems, the staff… it might be a million dollars for a piece of toast or a billiard ball. Perhaps ten million.Or the question might be: How much does the last one off the assembly line cost? After the entire system is up and running, after everyone's been paid by everything else that was produced today—the last unit the shift produced, what's the marginal cost of that one? In the case of our mythical billiard ball, it might be just a nickel.But maybe we're talking about this particular unit, the one that was hand sold, that was customized, that was delivered to precisely the right spot at precisely the right time—all of that just in time customization and risk reduction cost a fortune.And what about the externalities? What does it cost the environment, the community, the team?Finally, perhaps we ought to consider the opportunity cost. How much better would it have been for us to spend our time and our capital and our risk to do something else, something more useful or profitable?In the long run, all we need to do is divide our total costs by the total number of units we made. But in the long run, we're all dead. In the short run, the cost depends on what sort of decision we're trying to make.  END"}
{"prompt": "Two kinds of practice ###", "completion":"The first is quite common. Learn to play the notes as written. Move asymptotically toward perfection. Practice your technique and your process to get yourself ever more skilled at doing it (whatever ‘it’ is) to spec. This is the practice of grand slalom, of arithmetic, of learning your lines or c++.The other kind of practice is more valuable but far more rare. This is the practice of failure. Of trying on one point of view after another until you find one that works. Of creating original work that doesn’t succeed until it does. Of writing, oration and higher-level math in search of an elusive outcome, even a truth, one that might not even be there.We become original through practice.We’ve seduced ourselves into believing that this sort of breakthrough springs fully formed, as Athena did from Zeus’ head. Alas, that’s a myth. What always happens (as you can discover by looking at the early work of anyone you admire), is that she practiced her way into it.  END"}
{"prompt": "The unfair advantage ###", "completion":"Here's a sign I've never seen hanging in a corporate office, a mechanic's garage or a politician's headquarters:WE HAVE AN UNFAIR ADVANTAGE:We care more.It's easy to promise and difficult to do. But if you did it, it would work. More than any other skill or attitude, this is what keeps me (and people like me) coming back.  END"}
{"prompt": "Better than who you know ###", "completion":"The old-boy's network is powerful indeed, an unfair impediment to those that would seek to make a contribution, but it can be defeated with a combination of:Skill (the result of practice and effort)Technique (developing a point of view)Extraordinary effortCharisma (the confidence to care about connecting with others)PassionGenerosityExperienceRisk-taking (and not being confused by false fear appearing real)PersistenceConsistency and keeping promisesHonest storytellingIt would be fair, efficient and honest if everyone had an easy introduction and got the benefit of the doubt. Until that happens, though, outsiders of all kinds will have to rely on all of these skills instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Do they celebrate on Saturn? ###", "completion":"A hundred years ago, everyone wore a hat. If everyone meant men of a certain social stratum in certain cities. And people wore the hat because everyone else did.And everyone is taking the day off and everyone is watching the big game and everyone is busy checking their status on Facebook.Except…Except that in other time zones or other communities, everyone isn't doing anything of the sort. And on Saturn, they've never even heard of it.Peer pressure is a little like barometric pressure. It's constant, it's all around us and we assume that it's universal.If it's not helping you achieve your goals, ignore it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Getting clear about risk ###", "completion":"There are potential horrible things in the future, perhaps your future or mine.Unthinkable illnesses, weird accidents, lightning bolts of misfortune at random moments.If you decide to focus on them, you can fill your days with despair.On the other hand, pretending that it's not stupid to text while driving, to swim during a thunderstorm or to ride a bike without a helmet is dangerous indeed. Our awareness of potential bad outcomes can cause us to make really good choices to avoid those outcomes.So, what's the difference between being concerned about an asteroid hitting the Earth and being aware of how dangerous driving a Corvair at high speed is?Here's the simple approach: How much would it cost you (in time, money, effort, distraction) to make yourself ten times less likely to be at risk?It turns out that wearing a helmet is a cheap way to avoid a lifetime spine injury. You get a 10x improvement for very little effort. Knowing about the risk is really helpful, and any time you're tempted to run the risk, remind yourself of its implications.On the other hand, the only way to becoming one-tenth as likely to die from choking on food is to stop eating anything but soup. Hardly worth it.If there isn't a way to improve your odds, it's not clear why it's worth a lot of time or worry.Worry is useful when it changes our behavior in productive ways. The rest of the time, it's a negative form of distraction, an entertainment designed to keep us from doing our work and living our lives.  END"}
{"prompt": "The last Black Friday ###", "completion":"Four years ago, I wrote about the media trap that retailers invented. With nothing much to write about the day after Thanksgiving, the media engage in a stampede to encourage everyone to go shopping on the busiest, least satisfying shopping day of the year. They spent millions to create a social dynamic that pushes people to engage in an orgy of spending, merely because everyone else is.I think Amazon may have changed this forever.As the malls continue to die, as retailers everywhere struggle to come up with a reason why people should spend extra time and extra money to visit them, the herd dynamic of Black Friday is fading. It's hard to whip yourself into a frenzy when you're sitting at home, in your bathrobe, staring at a screen.In their race to out-Walmart Walmart, retailers everywhere forgot the real reason we need stores. Because shopping together makes us feel connected. Because it's fun. Because there's something about the shopping that's almost as good (or even better) than the buying part.The buying race is over. Amazon won. The shopping race, though, the struggle to create experiences that are worth paying for, that's just beginning.  END"}
{"prompt": "Thank you means two things ###", "completion":"There's the thank you that I say when you've been reading my mind, pushing the perfect buttons, saying exactly the right thing at exactly the right time. This is heartfelt, but it's also selfish, in that it's about my narrative and no one else's.And then there's the thank you of caring. Of effort. Of consideration. This is the thank you that recognizes the other, her effort, her kindness and her sacrifice. The thank you of showing up. This thank you has nothing at all to do with whether it's just what you wanted, and everything to do with the power of connection and care.Have a wonderful holiday. And thank you, both ways.  END"}
{"prompt": "Best practices ###", "completion":"If you need an appendectomy, it's unlikely you'll die during the operation.That's because the surgeon has been trained in hundreds of years of best practices. From Semmelweis to the latest in antibiotics, she knows what's come before.Not only that, but the scalpel she uses is the result of 1,000 iterations over the centuries. Every device has been sanitized based on trial and error from the millions of patients who came before you.Surgery is an engineering project, and it's based on best practices. Learn from the past, don't ignore it.Art, on the other hand, is something we value because it leaps. Art is more than engineering–art is the thing that might not work.But even art is based on best practices. Just not as much.The playwright better have read Bellow and Beckett. The conceptual artist should be familiar with Duchamp. The photographer and designer needs to know Debbie Millman, Robert Mapplethorpe and Jill Greenberg…Ignore it if you want to, but learn it first.  END"}
{"prompt": "Yelling upstairs ###", "completion":"When you’re cooking breakfast and the school bus is coming in just a few minutes, it’s tempting (and apparently efficient) to yell up the stairs. If a recalcitrant teenager is hesitating before heading off to school (I know, sometimes it happens), go ahead and yell.Good luck with that.The alternative is to turn off the stove and walk up the stairs. Catch your breath, then have a quiet conversation.Not efficient, but effective.This is an almost universal metaphor. We keep finding ways to rationalize various versions of yelling upstairs instead of doing the difficult work of engaging instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Acknowledgments ###", "completion":"Even though it's usually at the end, the acknowledgments are often the most important part of a book.This year, thousands of people have helped. They've inspired those they engaged with, built things that mattered, gracefully handled pain and loss, connected with ideas… and they've also spirited me through airports, welcomed me into their lives, shared honest feedback, made a commotion, set an example and showed up precisely when needed. They've written and been read, spoken up when it mattered and extended themselves. They've done their work in public or in private, from nearby or afar, but they've seen and been seen.The thought of listing them (and alas, leaving out so many) is both exciting and enervating, but here's a very partial list, perhaps 5% of those that I owe so much to. Perhaps you can make a list as well.Liz Jackson,Bernadette Jiwa,Amy Koppelman, Debbie Millman, Ishita Gupta, Frank Oswald, Sunny Bates, Fiona McKean,Andrea Stewart Cousins,Jacqueline Novogratz, David Wahl, Fred Wilson, Joel Lueb, By The Way Bakery, David Curhan, Cat Hoke, Nancy Lublin, Roger Gordon, Aria Finger, David Wilf, Marjorie Bryen, Kevin Kelly, Niki Papadopolous,Eric Leinwand,Chunyan Teng, Paul McGowan,Mark Frauenfelder, Shawn Coyne, Ramon Ray, Emily Epstein, Harley Finkelstein,Phil Hollows, Tina Eisenberg, Sarah Jones,Simon Sinek, Bryan Elliott,Tom Kubik,Travis Wilson, Jesse Dylan, Rodger Beyer, The extraordinary team I work with every day at HQ, Micah Sifry, Steve Dennis, Sheryl Sandberg, Marco Arment,Adam Grant,Sam Saffron,Susan Piver, Michelle Welsch, Tim Ferriss, Brian Koppelman, Alex DiPalma, Willie Jackson, Shawn and Lawren Askinosie, Nicole Walters, Robin Estevez, Chris Meyer, Francoise Hontoy, Louise Karch,Acar Altinsel,Shannon Weber, Michele Kyd Lee, Lodro Rinzler, Sarah Peck, Susan Schuman, Lisa Oswald, Danny Meyerand, of course, you.Especially you.Can't do it without you and the ruckus you seek to make every day. Thank you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Granularity ###", "completion":"You can't make an hourglass with a boulder.But break the boulder into sufficiently small bits of sand, and you can tell time.You wouldn't want to eat a baked loaf of ice cream, mustard, fish, bread, capers and cheese.But separate them into their component parts and you can open a restaurant.It's tempting indeed to build the one, the one perfect thing, here it is, it's for everyone.But one size rarely fits all.The alternative is break it into components, to find the grid and to fill it in. Not too small, not too big. Grains that match what we're ready to engage with.  END"}
{"prompt": "New habits ###", "completion":"I bought a CD yesterday.That didn't used to be news. I used to buy a CD every week, week after week, year after year. It adds up.Hi-rez streaming changed that habit for me, but it took about a year before the itch (mostly) subsided.Old habits die hard, and it's entirely possible that your customers are on fumes, buying your old stuff now and then, down from often and on their way to rarely.You can live on old habits for a while, but the future depends on investing infinding and building some new ones with (and for) your customers. Or your family. Or yourself.The most powerful insight is that you can do it with intent. You can decide that you want some new habits, and then go get them.  END"}
{"prompt": "Are you day trading? ###", "completion":"The volatility of bitcoin turns the people who own it into addicts. At any given moment, it’s up $100 or down a thousand.When it’s up, you think you’re brilliant, that you somehow had something to do with it.And when it’s down, the world is about to implode.Most people don’t day trade bitcoin, but all of us day trade something. We’re hooked into something volatile, easily measured and emotional. We overdo our response to news, good or bad, and let it distract us from the long-term job of living a useful life.Your SEO results, your Facebook likes, the look on your boss’s face when she gets back from a meeting–all of these things are rife with opportunities for day trading.It’ll be volatile with or without your help.Better to set it aside and get back to the real work of making a difference instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "The power of the possible ###", "completion":"Next year is almost here.And doing what you did this year probably isn’t going to be sufficient.That’s because you have more to contribute than you did this year. You have important work worth sharing.To reach your goals, you’ll probably need more effective and powerful ways to tell your story, get clients, gain market share and serve your audience.I'm excited that we'll be offering theThe Marketing Seminaragain, beginning in just about a week. It teaches you how to push beyond your current constraints and truly see what’s possible. In 2017, more than 4,000 people took the Seminar.Many of them came hoping that they'd learn some new techniques from me in the fifty videos that are included.Most of them were surprised.They were surprised to discover that while there are tons of useful tactics and approaches in the videos, the real power of the Seminar is helping people see what's possible. The peer-to-peer connection that's built deep into the Seminar means that you'll spend far more time giving and getting feedback than you will watching videos.It's this powerful interaction that changes the game. This is a future of education—community plus content.We each carry around a frying pan, looking for just the right size fish to fry. We each have an expectation of what we've got, what we might get and what we deserve. And most of all, we each carry around limits, beliefs about what we're able to contribute.The Seminar takes your impact at the edges and multiplies it by ten.We’re announcing the next session next week, and giving people who subscribe to our updates a first look and a special discount in advance.If you’re ready to do your most important work, we’d very much like to help you get there.  END"}
{"prompt": "How much is ‘smarter’ worth? ###", "completion":"No new costs, no new machines, no new resources.Just smarter.Smarter about the process, about the effects, about planning. Smarter about leadership, about management, about measurement.How much is smarter worth?In my experience, smarter is almost always a bargain, something you can buy for a lot less than it's worth.  END"}
{"prompt": "Kindness scales ###", "completion":"It scales better than competitiveness, frustration, pettiness, regret, revenge, merit (whatever that means) or apathy.Kindness ratchets up. It leads to more kindness. It can create trust and openness and truth and enthusiasm and patience and possibility.Kindness, in one word, is a business model, an approach to strangers and a platform for growth.It might take more effort than you were hoping it would, but it's worth it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Waste and the new luxury ###", "completion":"Luxury goods are built on a foundation of waste. Using the center cut. Extra effort, often unseen. More space, more resources, more energy than is needed.The front lawn is a luxury good, a sign that you don't need to graze your cows on every square inch, and that you're willing to waste the lawn. And the few bits of leather good enough to go into that luxury handbag sends a message about your ability to walk away from all the other parts of the hide.There's a new luxury that's occurring, though, one that's based on efficiency. Saving you time, sure, but also the time and resources of the creator. A luxury that's based on investing in renewables, in resources that might be seen as endless, in smart design, in the satisfaction of knowing that others are benefitting, not paying, for the experience or the object you're buying.  END"}
{"prompt": "Start small, start now ###", "completion":"This is much better than, start big, start later.One advantage is that you don’t have to start perfect.You can merely start.  END"}
{"prompt": "Choosing without deciding ###", "completion":"This or that, one or the other, it doesn't matter.It's actually possible that it just doesn't matter. A choice, but not a decision.We have to make choices like this every single day. What color, among three colors which are just fine. Which route, between two routes within a rounding error in time taken. Which flight, which table, which person…Choices don't have to be decisions.Decisions come with all sorts of overhead. We put a lot of weight on our ability to make good decisions. We switch frames, put in hard work and even involve emotional wishes about future outcomes. Decisions are fraught. That weight can pay off with a more serious approach, with more diligence, but mostly it weighs us down.We can save a lot of time and effort by making our meaningless choices effortless. Pick the first one, or the one in alphabetical order or flip a coin. Merely have a rule and make the choice.I'm serious. Considering ten colleges? Put your favorite five in a hat and randomly pick one. Done. Can't decide among three candidates for a job and you can't find a way to choose? Pick the one with the shortest first name. Why not? If you don't have enough information to make a statistically defensible decision, merely choose.At the end of the day, you'll have more resources remaining for the decisions that matter.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your corner of the sphere ###", "completion":"What sort of novel do you want to write?What does your restaurant offer?What about that new record you're recording?It's tempting indeed for you to seek to be high quality, low priced, durable, with excellent service, less filling, better taste, poetic phrasing, conveniently located, powerful characters and organic. All at once.But that's not how humans process what you have to offer.Consider some classic, bestselling novels or memoirs. Snow Crash matters because of the ideas within. Harry Potter worked because the plot kept kids riveted. The language in Patti Smith's Just Kids is perfect, and the characters in To Kill a Mockingbird are unforgettable. Of course, each book has the other elements in some measure, but it's the one thing that sticks with us.Zappos might have good prices, but it's the service we talk about. Tom's might have fashionable shoes, but it's the pay it forward that resonates. And your iPhone might have good download speed, but it's the design and fashion that we pay for.All a way of helping you think about the many disconnected points on the edge of the sphere in your industry. Pick one to exceed expectations in, while making sure everything else is good enough.  END"}
{"prompt": "A country for con men ###", "completion":"The medicine show hypester, the confidence man, the snake oil salesman… my country has a long history of marketers of ill repute.The reason is simple: we spent two hundred years spreading out over the continent, and unlike Europe, strangers were common. Everyone was coming and going, and it wasn’t unusual at all to engage with someone you didn’t know.The downside of this openness are all the people who took advantage of it. A tradition that continues to this day.In the rush to expand, people embraced the idea of the big win. They named their ranch Bonanza, or their town Prospector. They drilled for gushers, invested in penny stocks, and took expensive placebos…The upside is that being receptive to new ideas, even those too good to be true (especially those) creates a tradition of neophilia and optimism. When someone has a breakthrough—an innovation that actually keeps its promise—it’s much more likely to catch on.The downside is pretty obvious.And so we have to remain vigilant, teach our friends and customers to be on alert, and push regulators to take care, because there’s still a con artist on every corner.  END"}
{"prompt": "The other kind of customer service ###", "completion":"Reactive customer service waits until something is broken. We leave it up to the annoyed customer to go to the trouble of finding us, contacting us, and then, in real time, advocating for themselves until we finally manage to make things good enough (we rarely make them better than the customer hoped).Perhaps we ought to spend more time being proactive.How many people on your team are actively advocating for the customer in advance? Guiding the process so that most disappointments won't even happen, which means we won't have to fix them…Is there any more effective way to engage with customers than to create products that don't break their hearts?  END"}
{"prompt": "Would you vs. will you? ###", "completion":"'Would you' questions almost always fail to evoke useful information. That's because people are nice, and want to spare your feelings. Sure, if you built x, y and z, then of course I'd consider buying it.On the other hand, 'Will you' questions get to the truth immediately. Yes, I'll buy that from you today.You can do all the research in the world, but until you have the guts to make a sale, it's difficult to be certain of anything.  END"}
{"prompt": "Surfing vs. coal mining ###", "completion":"When the unexpected happens in surfing, that's why you went.When it happens in a coal mine, it's a matter of life and death.Perspective changes based on how you define your work. That unplanned outcome or sudden emergency—are you looking at with the optimism and possibility of a surfer, or the dread of a miner?  END"}
{"prompt": "Where did you go to school? ###", "completion":"An interesting question, perhaps, but irrelevant to a job interview.The campus you spent four years on thirty years ago makes very little contribution to the job you're going to do. Here's what matters: The way you approach your work.What have you built? What have you led? How do you make decisions? What's your reserve of emotional labor like? How do you act when no one is looking?You are not your resume. You are the trail you've left behind, the people you've influenced, the work you've done.  END"}
{"prompt": "Beginning is underrated ###", "completion":"Merely beginning.With inadequate preparation, because you will never be fully prepared.With imperfect odds of success, because the odds are never perfect.Begin. With the humility of someone who’s not sure, and the excitement of someone who knows that it’s possible.  END"}
{"prompt": "Never smooth enough–a modern addiction ###", "completion":"Once our needs are met, our instinct is to invent new ones, to find a fuel to continually move things forward, to bring that propulsive energy back.Social media makes it easy to be both dissatisfied and to have a mission at the same time: Make everyone happy.Every single critic silenced. Every customer delighted. Every prospect interested.Sort of like your footprint in social media. It's imperfectible. There is someone, right now, who's miffed at you. Someone who misunderstands you. Someone who used to work with you who doesn't any more, or someone who has the wrong impression of you and won't even give you a chance. Not to mention the trolls, the ones who merely seek oppositional positions.It's imperfectible.For every person who wants you to have bigger portions, there is someone who says the portions are too big. For every person who says your writing is too personal, there's someone who wants it to be more personal…Seeking a perfect sphere might be a hobby, but if it's not giving you joy, it's a lousy way to live. It's an addiction, not a useful tool.People have been talking about you behind your back ever since fifth grade. Now, of course, you can eavesdrop whenever you choose. Don't.Turn it off. Walk away. Accept the lack of perfect.Better to make something important instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Working with a designer (four paths) ###", "completion":"Most of us want to look good online, need a website, maybe even a logo. More and more individuals and organizations are discovering that they need to hire a professional.It comes down to doing your homework. Be clear with yourself before you spend a nickel or a minute with a designer. This difficult internal conversation will save you endless frustration and heartache later.Here are four postures to consider in working with a good (or great) designer: I know what I want. Bring your vision. Bring in your folder of typefaces, images, copy. Be very, very specific. The more you paste it up and sketch it out, the more likely you'll get exactly what you were hoping for. I'm not sure exactly, but I know what it rhymes with. Put together a scrapbook. Find examples from other industries. Do you want your website to look like one from Apple or a direct marketing diet book site? Don't tell the designer what to do, but be really clear what you want to remind people of. Originality isn't the primary goal of design, effectiveness is. I'm not a designer, but I understand state change. Do you want this work to increase trust? Desire? Confidence? Urgency? Who's it for? What's it for? If you can be really clear about what the work is for, then hire someone you trust and give them the freedom to find a way to cause that change to happen. I'll know it when I see it. Please don't do this unless you have a lot of money and a lot of time (and a very patient designer). This demand for telepathy is for amateurs.  END"}
{"prompt": "Hope and reality ###", "completion":"Sometimes, we don't sell what we've got, we sell what could be.Book publishers, for example, buy non-fiction book proposals ($10 million for Bruce Springsteen's autobiography) not the finished book. The finished book almost never matches what they were hoping for, but the hoping is fun.Venture capitalists, at least in the early stages of a company, buy hope as well. The numbers that might be, that could be, not the numbers you have now.Understanding this, it's possible to draw a curve of hope and reality, over time. You need to be on a course toward the reality you seek, but bringing on partners is most effectivewhen hope is ascending, not after reality sets in.  END"}
{"prompt": "Short-attention-span theatre ###", "completion":"Being first is insufficient.Google wasn’t the first search engine. Facebook wasn’t the first social network. Apple wasn’t the first home computer, phone or smart watch. Amazon wasn’t the first online bookstore.Before Sonos, before Alexa, before Google Home, there was the HomePod. [pic 1, pic 2]In 2004, Dan Lovy and I launched a device that could take the music on your hard drive and play it through your stereo. And some other stuff, too. You certainly don’t own one. We were five years too early for early adopters and ten years too early for the beginning of the mass market.I’ve jumped the timingbefore.You can see the same thing happen to inventors of online shopping carts, ad networks, auction sites, ad formats, file sharing, crypto applications, all of it… Even non-profits and musical styles.I’ve embraced that pattern for years. Going first. It’s thrilling. Not particularly profitable, but thrilling.Too often, we come to believe that there’s some sort of idea race going on. While some need the froth and magic of the new, it turns out that culture is changed by persistence most of all. Be an inventor if you choose, but don’t expect that you’ll be the one driving the bus once the masses decide to get on.[The third episode of my Akimbo podcast is out today. It’s aboutVF 145: The Square Tomato. The podcast is now one of the top 100 in the world, thanks to you.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Low & Slow (vs. fear) ###", "completion":"My sourdough rye bread failed. For the first time since I've been baking from this starter, this weekend's batch didn't work.I know why.I rushed it.I didn't let the dough ferment long enough.And then I made the oven hotter, in an effort to get the loaves finished so I could leave to meet someone.That's not how great bread works. It's ready when it's ready, not when you need it to be.Of course, the analogy is obvious. Much of the work we do as creators, as leaders, as people seeking to make change–it needs to ferment, to create character and tension and impact. And if we rush it, we get nothing worth very much.There's a flipside.Sometimes, we mistakenly believe that we're building something that takes time, but what we're actually doing is hiding. We stall and digress and cause distractions, not because the work needs us to, but because we're afraid to ship.Impatience can be a virtue if it causes us to leap through the fear that holds us back.[PS thanks for your support for Catherine Hoke's new book. Loyal readers like you made it a national bestseller on its first day–only Michelle Obama had a faster-moving book. If you didn't get a copy yesterday, I hope you'll check it out. It will change you in ways you don't expect. Here's a review that got posted yesterday:Odds are, you've never been to prison…but as humans, we're masters at creating our own. Our prison may be the shame of our past, a desire for perfection or our need for acceptance. The walls might be the potential we haven't realized, a loved one we hurt or even a conversation we never got a chance to have.By bravely sharing her personal story and the behind-the-scenes look at the important and generous movement she's leading at Defy Ventures, Cat Hoke gives us all a second chance…to speak up, to lead and to make a difference.]  END"}
{"prompt": "You can’t be curious and angry at the same time ###", "completion":"The first time I met Catherine Hoke, she changed my life. That's what she does at Defy. She changes lives.After more than a year of persistent nudging, I was finally able to persuade her to share her story and her wisdom in a new book.I'm thrilled that it came out this morning.Defy works with men and women who were formerly incarcerated. They work with business leaders who are used to being treated with respect and privilege. And they work with volunteers across the country.Mostly, what Defy does, what Cat does, is help people understand that forgiveness is a powerful tool, one that's easily overlooked. That when you're busy holding a grudge, it's difficult to open your arms to the possibility that's all around us.Alex Peck and I spent nine months helping Cat bring this book to the world. We've donated 20,000 hardcover copies to Defy, so that every copy sold contributes 100% to their important work.I hope you'll buy a copy (or several) today. It's a game changer, and I'm confident you'll be glad you took the leap.Here's an unsolicited note we got the other day:I finished reading A Second Chance yesterday and immediately started it again. It is easily the most impactful book I have read in years, if not ever. I find myself continually referencing it in conversation and can't wait for others to be able to read it. I have a list of people I'm ordering it for. I've been giving out copies of What To Do When It's Your Turn for years and now I have a new book I can't wait to give to people.Thank you, Seth and the rest of the team for your investment in Cat, Defy and this book. The work of Seth and the Domino Project have been tremendous influencers on my life and work for years and this book takes that to a whole new level.Best regards,-scott  END"}
{"prompt": "Fun, urgent or fear-based ###", "completion":"Most of what we do at work all day is one of these three.Fun: It's engaging, it gives us satisfaction, people smile.Urgent: Someone else (or perhaps we) decided that this paper is on fire and it has to be extinguished before anything else happens.Fear-based: Most common of all, the things we do to protect ourselves from the fear we'd have to sit with if we didn't do them.Not on this list: important.A day spent doing important work is rare indeed. Precious, too.  END"}
{"prompt": "Totaled ###", "completion":"A car is totaled when the cost of fixing it is more than the cost of buying a similar used car in good condition.The broken car is a sunk cost. It doesn't matter how much you paid for it. It's a gift from the you of yesterday to the you of today. And it arrived broken, so broken that it's cheaper to buy a different one than to fix this one. Reject the gift from your earlier self. It's no gift at all.Sunk costs are all around us. Commitments and engagements and assets that were hard to get, but are now totaled. They're gifts from the you of yesterday, and it's okay to refuse them.  END"}
{"prompt": "The rigor imperative ###", "completion":"When the project is emotional, or urgent, or loaded with resonance, it's easy to dispense with rigor. It is, after all, an emergency. No time for the process, for doing the hard part first, seeking best practices, or reverse engineering toward the desired result…Of course, the opposite is true. If it's worth getting into a swizzle about, it's worth doing properly.Do the math, do the reading, do the budget. Do it right.  END"}
{"prompt": "Noticed vs. missed ###", "completion":"Will they notice that you've left?There are lots of ways to be noticed. You can be loud. Argumentative. You can be sour, difficult, a bit of a diva. You can take umbrage at every opportunity, crack jokes at the expense of others, or merely scowl.You can use hyperbole, drama and shame to get your way.You can spam people, yell a lot, interrupt our day. You can create a scene, engage in a scandal and bully others. Your brand or your personality can be the one that we'd all prefer never to hear from again soon.Or…You could be the one we'd miss if you were gone.It takes quite a bit of emotional labor to pull this off. Consistent effort to contribute, to see possibility and to be patient. If it were the easiest or most direct path to a short-term goal, everyone would do it.Because we live in a world now based on connection and trust, because we work with our ideas and our emotions instead of our muscles, because our reputation is what we have to offer, the effort is probably worth it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Is the noise in my head bothering you? ###", "completion":"The monologue that runs in our brain is loud. It's heavy-metal loud compared to the quiet signals we get from the rest of the world.All day, every day, that noise keeps going. It's the only voice that has seen everything we've seen, believes everything we believe. It's the noise that not only criticizes every action of every other person who disagrees with us, but it criticizes their motives as well. And, if we question it, it criticizes us as well.Is it any wonder that projection is more powerful than empathy?When we meet people, we either celebrate when they agree with us or plot to change or ignore them when they don't. There's not a lot of room for, they might have a different experience of this moment than I do.That noise in our head is selfish, afraid and angry. That noise is self-satisfied, self-important and certain. That noise pushes intimacy away and will do anything it can to degrade those that might challenge us.But, against all odds, empathy is possible.It's possible to amplify those too-quiet signals that others send us and to practice imagining, even for a moment, what it might be like to have their noise instead of our noise.If we put in the effort and devote the time to practice this skill, we can get better at it. We merely have to begin.  END"}
{"prompt": "Status roles ###", "completion":"I don't have much, but I have more than you do…The second episode of my podcast is out today, and it's the result of perhaps fifty blog posts I wrote but didn't post, because the topic is too important and it's too nuanced for something as short as a blog post.Status roles are at the core of who we are. They change how we spend our time, our money and most of all, our imaginations.We define ourselves in relative terms, not absolute ones. More stuff, more power, less this or less that. Who's up and who's down?It's about the Godfather and professional wrestling, about business cards and politics. It's about Baxter and Truman. And it's about how fiction works, and real life as well.Everywhere we turn, we see status roles on display. Some people are moving on up, while others are moving down. This creates tension, drama and the need for resolution.Here's a page with all the ways to listen and subscribe for free.Ask a question and see the show notes about this episode on our show page.  END"}
{"prompt": "The Luckiest Lottery Store… ###", "completion":"Really?That's the headline in the paper. Of course, there's no such thing as a lucky lottery store. And rational, long-term citizens never buy lottery tickets, because it's a lousy bet.But the idea of the lucky store is precisely what someone is paying for when they buy the ticket. That this time, just maybe, luck will turn out the way it's supposed to. That a hunch or a scratch or a slight change in habit will pay off. That's what people are buying, not the net present value of a series of transactions.They're buying the thrill of possible luck.  END"}
{"prompt": "What is and what might be ###", "completion":"They have much less in common than you might expect.The key step in creating a better future is insisting that it not be based on the assumptions, grievances and dead ends of the past.The future won't be perfect. We won't be perfect. But we can be kind. We can listen. We can give opportunity the benefit of the doubt.The future won't always work. We won't always succeed. But we can be alert and seek out the possible instead of the predicted.The future won't always be fair. But we can try. We can care. We can choose to connect.It can be better if we let it.[Have you read about The Marketing Seminar? This is our last session before the fall.]  END"}
{"prompt": "The Podcast Fellowship (a summer program) ###", "completion":"[If you know a full-time student in need of a worthy summer project, please share with them…]Summer internships are a problem. Too often, you’re working for free, doing very little of value and learning less. Two out of three might be okay, but that’s a lousy combination.Too often, careers are shaped based on too little input from a busy office. And far too often, privilege and existing relationships play a role in who gets to do something productive.In real life, after college, you’re less likely than ever to have a real job in a real office. You’re also hoping to be doing a job you actually like, where people aren’t telling you what to do all day. Why train for the worst outcome all summer in a dead-end internship?Alex DiPalma and I are pleased to invite you to consider an experiment, open to a hand-picked group of students this summer. A virtual program, available wherever there’s a laptop and an internet connection. Alex is a successful podcast producer, who has worked on Akimbo, with Minnesota Public Radio, with Cal Fussman, with Food4Thot, among other shows. She knows what’s up.The idea: You should build a podcast. A thirty-episode series, a podcast that captures insights and experiences in an area you care about.Are you hoping for a career in urban planning? Make your podcast about that. Over the course of the thirty episodes, you can interview leaders in your field. You can capture your thoughts on the big (and small) issues of the day. You can lead and you can teach. And no one can stop you.It doesn’t matter how many people listen to it. It doesn’t matter that it doesn’t have a sponsor. It matters that you made it.By the end of the summer, you’ll have published your work to anyone who cares to subscribe. You’ll have developed assertions, made connections and most of all, shared with generosity. You won’t be a technical wizard, you’ll have something better than that–the confidence that comes from having built and shipped generous work.The (updated) program itself can be found right here.Throughout the program, we’ll be teaching you useful techniques, challenging you to invent new ones, and most of all, connecting you with other students who are going where you’re going. This online mastermind group will take a real commitment, a few hours a day at minimum. But if you put in the time, you’ll earn the body of work you’ll end up creating.The program costs about $10 a day, because we want people to have skin in the game.  END"}
{"prompt": "Video/podcast roundup ###", "completion":"Some interviews and talks you might enjoy: Podcast: Project Management with Rocketship.fmPodcast: Talking with Anthony Iannorino.Podcast: With Lisa DeLay.Daily Grind podcast.Don't Quit Your Day Job with Cathy Heller.Podcast with Heneka Watkis PorterPodcast with Joe Ferraro. Tropical MBA podcast.Podcast: Design Matters with Debbie Millman (a backlist classic).  END"}
{"prompt": "When your ideas get stolen ###", "completion":"A few meditations:Good for you. Isn't it better that your ideas are worth stealing? What would happen if you worked all that time, created that book or that movie or that concept and no one wanted to riff on it, expand it or run with it? Would that be better?You're not going to run out of ideas. In fact, the more people grab your ideas and make magic with them, the more of a vacuum is sitting in your outbox, which means you will prompted to come up with even more ideas, right?Ideas that spread win. They enrich our culture, create connection and improve our lives. Isn't that why you created your idea in the first place?The goal isn't credit. The goal is change.[A new episode of Akimbo is out today, with riffs about infinite and finite games. Feel free to subscribe, and please steal these ideas. Ready to spread your ideas? Check out The Marketing Seminar… don't forget the purple circle.]  END"}
{"prompt": "It’s time ###", "completion":"Time to get off the social media marketing merry-go-round that goes faster and faster but never actually goes anywhere.Time to stop hustling and interrupting.Time to stop spamming and pretending you're welcome.Time to stop making average stuff for average people but hoping you can charge more than a commodity price.Time to stop begging people to become your clients, and time to stop feeling badly about charging for your work.Time to stop looking for shortcuts and time to start insisting on a long, viable path instead.Time to start contributing.There are lots of ways to embrace modern marketing, but the there's no doubt that you'll be better off once you do.Modern marketing is the practice of making something worth talking about, developing empathy for those you seek to serve and being in the market in a way that people would miss you if you were gone.Today's the first day for signups for the proven, effective Marketing Seminar. We've worked with more than 5,000 students so far and they've made a substantial impact with their work. The Seminar is not just videos–it's an ongoing cohort, months of working directly with your peers, engaging, challenging and learning what works (and what doesn't.)It might be just what you need to transform your work. If you click the purple circle on the bottom of the page, you'll save a bunch of money, but hurry, as the discount gets a little less valuable each day.And, if you're the sort of student who would prefer to skip the discussion board and binge watch, we've just made the Seminar available in an all-video highlights format as well.It's time to change the way you engage with the market. I'm hoping we can help.  END"}
{"prompt": "Secure and respected and engaged and risky ###", "completion":"Some people want their workplace to be like an artist's studio. A lab. A dance with the possible. Engaging. Thrilling. The chance to take flight, to be engaged, to risk defeat and to find a new solution to an important problem.And some people want a job that's secure, where they are respected by those around them.The essential lesson: These are not necessarily different people, but they are very different attitudes.It's a choice, a choice made once a lifetime, or every year, or perhaps day by day…When you sit with an employee who seeks security and talk to them about failing fast, and understanding the guardrails, and speaking up, it's not likely to resonate.It's worth finding the right state of mind for the job that needs to be done.  END"}
{"prompt": "Don’t split the pot (at least not at this table) ###", "completion":"I got kicked out of the only regular poker game I was ever a part of.The first week I won a few bucks.The second week, I broke even.The third week, the betting got serious and there was a lot on the table–maybe as much as $30(!). Realizing that this sort of risk didn't work for me, I turned to the last two people left in a hand and said, why don't we split the pot three ways?In the long run, that might be a good way to go home flush. In real life, it's a totally sensible way to deal with risk.But at a poker game?When you sit down at a poker table, you're acting as if. As if you're gambling. And if you don't want to gamble, don't play. That's what they told me and they were right.The same thing is true when you go to a brainstorming session, or to therapy or even an Ethiopian restaurant.If you don't want to want to engage with what's on the table, don't sit down.  END"}
{"prompt": "You will not be surprised by artificial intelligence ###", "completion":"That's because it's incremental. Every time a computer takes over a job we never imagined a computer can do, it happens so gradually that by the time it's complete, we're not the slightest bit amazed.We now have computers that can play chess, read x-rays, drive down the highway at 55 miles an hour, understand our voice, scan documents for errors, do all traditional banking chores, correct our spelling, plot a route on foot or by plane, find the cheapest airfares and pick a face out of a crowd.At any time since 1970, if you went to live on a desert island for a decade, you would have been blown away by what happened when you got back. Day by day, though, human-only tasks quietly disappear.After the replacement, computers do some of these jobs better than we ever could, but, as they're evolving, we take each of these perfections and advancements for granted. It's too gradualto be awe-inspiring.Our job now, isn't to do our job. It's to find new tasks, human tasks, faster than the computer takes the old ones away. Too often, people are displaced and then give up.We can still add value, but we need to do it differently, more bravely, and with ever more insight.[IBM recently asked me to do a talk about the future of AI in customer service.]  END"}
{"prompt": "How many hops? ###", "completion":"Some things, like your next job, might happen as the direct result of one meeting. Here I am, here's my resume, okay, you're hired.But most of the time, that's not the way it works.You meet someone. You do a small project. You write an article. It leads to another meeting. You do a slightly bigger project for someone else. You make a short film. That leads to a speaking gig. Which leads to an consulting contract. And then you get the gig.How many hops does the ball take before it lands where you're hoping it will?If you're walking around with a quid pro quo mindset, giving only enough to get what you need right now, and walking away from anyone or anything that isn't the destination—not only are you eliminating all the possible multi-hop options, you're probably not having as much as fun or contributing as much as you could either.  END"}
{"prompt": "Overpinnings when the underpinnings go away ###", "completion":"Years ago, most middle class people had a huge, expensive piece of furniture in their living room. It played music and captured radio broadcasts.The high-end stereo business was the overpinning built on this underpinning. If you're already going to the expense and trouble of making music at home, why not spend a bit more time and money and have it sound fantastic?Of course, most people have solved their music problem, and they didn't need a piece of furniture to do it. The underpinnings that the industry was built on have disappeared.The same is true for the typical bookstore. If you're already spending a little bit of time and money reading books to stay informed, why not spend a bit more time and money and be really smart?The typical adult isn't relying on books for this sort of information any more, so the upgradeable base is much smaller.Or consider the fountain pen (overpinning the ballpoint), the fancy vacation house (overpinning the motel replaced by vrbo and airbnb), or the fancy suit (overpinning the cheap suit). It's even true for laser printers and cigarettes.These luxury categories don't go away as fast as the thing they depended on, because they were never mass items, so it's possible to survive on much less demand. But in order to thrive, the creators of these products need to shift their story, their posture and the value they deliver to their audience.  END"}
{"prompt": "Two bits of fame ###", "completion":"Ogilvy & Mather was on line 1. (I actually only have one line, but it sounds cool to imagine that they could be on line 1).The news was unexpected. They were calling on behalf of the AMA and inviting me to be inducted into the Marketing Hall of Fame. I actually thought it would be more likely that I'd be invited to join the Roller Derby Hall of Fame.The ceremony is on May 17th in New York.Also!The Dip was on Billions on Showtime yesterday (note: Cable-TV language included):  END"}
{"prompt": "How cold is the turkey? ###", "completion":"If your customers had to stop using your product or service tomorrow, how much would they miss it?How easy are you to replace?How deep are the habits, how essential are the interactions?Being missed when you're gone is a worthy objective.  END"}
{"prompt": "A clean sheet of paper ###", "completion":"The last few clues on the crossword are the easiest to decode… there aren't as many choices.Over time, we let the grid at work get filled up, and spend our work day filling in the little tiny corners. We address the undone tasks or find the small improvements that are next on the list.Sometimes, this tiny incrementalism leads to a big idea. But often, it's the freedom (and fear) of a clean sheet that opens the door to a different path forward.Of course, the paper is never fully blank. We have countless assumptions about what our assets are, what's achievable and where we're comfortable. These assumptions could be suspended if we cared enough.The best time to work with a clean sheet is long before you're confronted with one.  END"}
{"prompt": "The moment of maximum leverage ###", "completion":"It's the moment before it tips, that split second where a little effort can make a big difference.We wait for this. For the day when participating will truly pay off, for the mechanical advantage that gives us the most impact for our effort.It's a myth.Maximum leverage is the result of commitment, of daily persistence, of gradual and insane and apparently useless effort over time.When it works, it merely looks like we had good timing.  END"}
{"prompt": "Inciteful ###", "completion":"The right answer might not be the best thing you can say.Perhaps it would be better if you could help your friend take action instead. The acts of finding and doing are almost always more useful than getting good advice.Inciting action is often better than contributing insight. Better to move forward and figure it out than to stand still and believe you know the right answer.  END"}
{"prompt": "The trap of listening to feedback ###", "completion":"If I listened to feedback, I would have quit on the first day.You're devoting your life to making something important. Something helpful. Something that matters. Mostly, something that hasn't been done before, that's going to bend the curve and make an impact.If you begin and end with surveys and focus groups, all you're going to do is what's been done before.We're counting on you to trust yourself enough to speak your own version of our future. Yes, you'll need the empathy to put yourself in our shoes, and the generosity to care enough to make it worth our time and trust. But no, don't outsource the hard work of insight and creation to the rest of us.That's on you.  END"}
{"prompt": "About that tantrum ###", "completion":"A note to the customer who just had a meltdown. To the groom without a perfect wedding, to the rental car customer who had to wait twenty minutes, and to the boss who’s furious that the delivery wasn’t as promised.We heard you. We, as in the people you were seeking to impact, and we as in the rest of us as well, the innocent bystanders.Actually, we heard you the first time. Ever since then, the only information that’s being communicated is about you, not the people you’re angry with.You’re demonstrating your privilege (because you need to have plenty of resources in order to waste so many on an emotional, non-productive tirade.)You’re demonstrating your entitlement.You’re demonstrating a surprising lack of self control. Toddlers have tantrums. Adults should solve problems.And you’re demonstrating your fear, most of all. The fear that fuels a narrative of being unheard. The fear that you’re not good enough. The fear that this might be the last chance you get to make everything exactly perfect.Working with the outside world is an act of communication and mutual respect. You deserve to be heard, but you don’t have a right to have a tantrum.  END"}
{"prompt": "Entrepreneurship is not a job ###", "completion":"You don’t apply. You don’t get a salary. No one picks you.Bragging about how much money you’ve raised or what your valuation is a form of job thinking.Entrepreneurship is a chance to trade a solution to someone who has a problem that needs solving.Solve more problems, solve bigger problems, solve problems more widely and you’re an entrepreneur.It’s tempting to industrialize this work, to make it something with rules and bosses and processes. But that’s not the heart of it.The work is to solve problems in a way that you’re proud of.  END"}
{"prompt": "Missing from your job description ###", "completion":"If you're working in an office, here are some of the checklist items that might have been omitted: Add energy to every conversationAsk whyFind obsolete things on your task list and remove themTreat customers better than they expectOffer to help co-workers before they askFeed the plantsLeave things more organized than you found themInvent a moment of sillinessHighlight good work from your peersFind other great employees to join the teamCut costsHelp invent a new product or service that people really wantGet smarter at your job through training or booksEncourage curiositySurface and highlight difficult decisionsFigure out what didn't workOrganize the bookshelfStart a clubTell a joke at no one's expenseSmile a lot. Now that it's easier than ever to outsource a job to someone cheaper (or a robot) there needs to be a really good reason for someone to be in the office. Here's to finding several.[Heads up: Today's the early priority deadline for the summer session of the altMBA.Also! Tonight, just after 6 pm ET, the one and only Simon Sinek is joining me for a Facebook Live conversation, on location.]  END"}
{"prompt": "After you raise your hand… ###", "completion":"Show up.Show up and keep showing up.Show up with at least as much enthusiasm as you had when you first raised your hand to volunteer.The volunteering part is easy. Making promises is a fun way to get someone's attention.Keeping those promises is often unsung, but that's how you build something.  END"}
{"prompt": "What do I get? ###", "completion":"When people are confused, unengaged or dubious, it's probably because you haven't answered a very simple question to their satisfaction.The answer doesn't have to be direct (quid pro quo doesn't scale very well) but it must be clear enough to be understood.Marketing is often the craft of using symbols and inferences to make it very clear to people what they're going to get.  END"}
{"prompt": "More better math ###", "completion":"Math’s important. It’s elegant. It’s a magical way to deal with abstract concepts on your way to finding out the provable truth. There's not enough math in the world.Math isn’t the same as arithmetic. Basic arithmetic is necessary, but everything beyond that is simply easily-graded compliance disguised as busy-work.A high school principal told me that there’s a high correlation between students who fail to complete algebra and those that drop out of school before graduation. It’s not surprising if you think about it—factoring polynomials is a totally useless activity that only demonstrates that you’re good at school.What would happen if we introduced variables and intuitive algebra and then immediately switched gears to probabilities (gambling and decision making) and statistics (sports, predictions and understanding the world as it is and it might be.)What would a year of hands-on truth-finding do for a class of freshman? What mathematical and vocational doors would it open?Every day we spend teaching hand factoring of binomials to non-math majors is another day we raise mathematically illiterate kids. What are we waiting for?  END"}
{"prompt": "Up or out? ###", "completion":"We have a choice, a chance to engage with two different environments.There's the 'up or out' competitive mindset of the soccer squad. Every game you re-earn your spot on the team, or find yourself on the bench.And there's the fortress, the sinecure, the satisfying feeling of knowing that we're safe. Or at least that we feel safe. This is my desk, my office and my job. When something interrupts that apparently secure perch, it feels a little bit like dying. Don't touch my stapler.In the fast-moving world of 'up' is also the promise of possibility, the freedom to innovate, the requirement to be generous in your work. Out isn't nearly as important, it turns out, as forward.Soccer is a zero-sum, winner/loser finite game. But life, it turns out, is a magical opportunity for up, and for forward.While the sinecure demands little but compliance.Here's the key question: Which feeling/experience/state do you look back on fondly? Which one engages you, challenges you, makes you the best version of yourself?When you tell yourself your story—the story of last week, last month or last year—is it about how boring and secure life has become?What you learn isn't up to someone else's curriculum or syllabus any more–it's on you, on each of us, to decide what's next, to decide who we will become. We're not in fifth grade, wondering if something is going to be on the test.It used to be that only 10,000 people a year could learn from a top business school, that executive education cost more than a car, that strategies and insights were closely guarded secrets. Now, they're available to those willing to make the commitment.That commitment is a choice. It's the choice to become a bigger contributor, to stand a little taller, to make a bigger difference.Up isn't always what we're going to get. Sometimes, we challenge ourselves and fail. But the alternative, the non-choice of sitting still and hoping we'll be ignored in our little sinecure, isn't much of an alternative at all.In this moment, this summer, right now, each of us has the chance for a bit more up. The chance to connect, to inspire and even to leap.Today is the last/best day (the deadline) to apply for this summer's altMBA. This is what it feels like to level up.  END"}
{"prompt": "Excellence ###", "completion":"If you knew,and you could see the world through the eyes of the customer,and you really cared…What would you do?That's a simple test of creating excellence.So, if I'm on hold for 56 minutes with Orbitz, does the CEO know? Is that ever a desired outcome?Does the engineer who shipped a hackable voting machine know that it's hackable?The plumber who finished the job and left the hot/cold controls in reverse position… did he care enough?Excellence cuts through bureaucracy and status quo and excuses and asks a simple question:What would you do if you knew?  END"}
{"prompt": "After the hiccup ###", "completion":"Most customer relationships don't stumble because something went wrong. Your best customers know that mistakes happen.It's what happens next that can cripple the relationship.How we recover from a miss is where the possibilities lie. If you're open, engaged and focused on making things better, the door is open to build a resilient, ongoing partnership. Not just for customers, but for all the people we work with and count on.Too often, we're so focused on not hiccuping, or so filled with shame and blame when we do that we fail to allocate enough emotional labor to do the most important part–making things right. Not with a refund or a basket of fruit, but by truly seeing the other person, understanding what happened and doing the hard work to move forward.  END"}
{"prompt": "You can’t please everyone ###", "completion":"We know this.Each of us knows it. From experience. From logic. By doing the math. It can't be done.Okay, fine.So, what are you doing about it?When you're creating something, are the possible reactions of the people you can't please weighing you down? And when you inevitably end up disappointing someone, how do you react or respond?It doesn't do any good at all to know that you can't please everyone but not use that knowledge to be bolder, walk lighter and do better work for those you can please.  END"}
{"prompt": "Does it help? ###", "completion":"Okay, you know how you feel, what you need, what you want…This next thing you're going to do or say: Does it help you get closer to that?  END"}
{"prompt": "The order ###", "completion":"It's tempting to decide to make a profit first, then invest in training, people, facilities, promotion, customer service and most of all, doing important work.In general, though, it goes the other way.  END"}
{"prompt": "Big crew/little crew ###", "completion":"Software projects work better with small teams.On the other hand, it makes sense to have multiple teams of workers if you're paving a patch of highly trafficked highway.Three reasons:CoordinationLearningRamp up timeAs we learned from the Mythical Man Monthmore than fifty years ago, software projects rely on coordination of work. As you add programmers, the work doesn't go faster, it gets slower. Ramp up time is expensive. And if the project involves learning as you go, then big teams waste far more time at the beginning while you're figuring things out.On the other hand, it doesn't make any sense at all to have a single crew working on a paving project. If you need to close the road for two weeks as they work from one end to the other, you've cost the users of the road a fortune. Ramp up time for trained professionals is trivial, and there's no learning and not much coordination. Better to have five crews working on different sections and open the road after just one or two days.Often, we default to a small crew because we don't believe we can afford a bigger one. But if the work is worth doing, it might be worth doing more quickly. It's easier than ever to find ways to scale project labor now.And sometimes, we mistakenly choose to use a big crew, thinking that nine women, working very carefully in coordination, can have a baby in one month. Wishful thinking that ends up in disappointment.If you want to see how a project got into trouble, look for how crew size was decided.  END"}
{"prompt": "Before and after ###", "completion":"When you put the right idea into the world, people can't unsee it.It changes our narrative. The existence of your product, service or innovation means that everything that compares to it is now treated differently.Once the fax existed, mail seemed slower. Once email was around, the fax seemed hopelessly analog.Of course, these are once-in-a-lifetime tech innovations.But at a smaller scale, the same thing happens when the first restaurant installs a salad bar, or the local insurance agent or real estate broker gets rid of voice mail and starts answering the phone on the first ring.Once seen, they can't be unseen.  END"}
{"prompt": "Looking for validation ###", "completion":"or perhaps, you're looking to improve.You can't do both at the same time.If it's perfect, you can't make it better. But if you don't make it better, you're getting no closer to what you set out to accomplish.  END"}
{"prompt": "Where’s the king of the ants? ###", "completion":"Of course there isn’t one. Ants organize locally. They develop a culture, and that culture gives them the resilience to make them one of the world’s most numerous creatures. Deborah Gordon of Stanford has the fascinating details.It turns out that culture is the most powerful force available to us. Culture comes from each of us, from the connections between. Culture isn’t created by presidents, Popes or kings.Hollywood has a culture, not a king. Silicon Valley too. Change the culture (slowly and persistently) and you can change everything.  END"}
{"prompt": "Bad sorts (and the useful ones) ###", "completion":"We sort people all the time. Society prefers easy, useless ones. Sorts like: Skin color. Gender. Disability status. Nationality. Religious background. Height.While these are easy to do and the result of long, long traditions, they’re useless.The alternatives? Kindness. Expertise. Attitude. Skill. Emotional intelligence. Honesty. Generous persistence. Willingness to take risks. Loyalty. Perceptivity. Attention span. Care. Self awareness…It’s a daily battle, an uphill climb to intentionally ignore the bad sorts we were likely taught as kids. This might be the most important work we do today, and every day. The people we care about deserve it…  END"}
{"prompt": "The shortcut crowd ###", "completion":"There is no market. There are markets.And markets have segments. There are people who enjoy buying expensive wine. There are people who will save up their money to have a big wedding. There are people who pay to have a personal trainer…And within segments, there are careful consumers, traditional consumers, consumers who seek out the cutting edge. There are bargain hunters, luxury snobs and people who measure the way Consumer Reports does.Often overlooked, though, is the fact that in many markets, particularly involving personal finance, small business and relationships, there are people who are obsessed with the shortcut.They want something that’s too good to be true.They respond to big promises that offer magical, nearly instant results.They want a squeeze page, a tripwire offer, a hard sell.They respond to these messages because they’re a signal that a shortcut is on offer.My grandmother, who never exercised a day in her life, bought an exercise machine from a late night TV commercial. When it sat gathering dust, she explained that she thought it would do the exercise for her, and was disappointed that it didn’t magically make her fit for $99.Or consider the victims of ‘plastic surgeons to the stars’ who pay for radical surgery only to discover that it doesn’t change their social life.Or the hardworking people who fork over money for a get rich internet ICO, based on technology that they (and the promoter) don’t understand.There are complicated reasons for wanting this sort of engagement. It might be that the promise and the pressure of these pitches create endorphins that are pleasing. And it might be that deep down, this market segment knows that things that are too good to be true can’t possibly work, and that’s fine with them, because they don’t actually want to change–they simply want to be able to tell themselves that they tried. That the organization they paid their money to failed, of course it wasn’t their failure.Once you see that this short-cut market segment exists, you can choose to serve them or to ignore them. And you can be among them or refuse to buy in. But you do have to choose.  END"}
{"prompt": "If you need deadlines to do your best work… ###", "completion":"Make some up.There’s no shame in that. In fact, it’s a brilliant hack.Set up a method of reward or punishment with a third party. Money in escrow that goes to a cause you abhor. Public congratulations. Whatever the method, the point is the same: You’ve been trained since childhood to respond to external deadlines. For many people, that’s the only way to feel the magic of accomplishment.If you need the last minute to be your best self, first go manufacture some last minutes.[David points us to beeminder.]  END"}
{"prompt": "But why does it take so long? ###", "completion":"The original book could take three years to write. Retyping the manuscript might take a day or two.Modern work isn’t time-consuming because it takes a long time to type.Physical constraints aren’t usually the gating factor, either. It’s not a physical speed limit that holds us back.It might be:Coordinating the work of many people often leads to slack and downtime.Persuading others to go along with our ideas requires clarity, persistence and time.Pathfinding our way to the right answer isn’t always obvious and takes guts.The first thing we try rarely works, and testing can take a long time to organize.Persuading ourselves to move forward can take even longer.A coordinated, committed group with a plan for continuous testing and improvement can run circles around a disorganized group of frightened dilettantes.  END"}
{"prompt": "The jerk fallacy ###", "completion":"There’s a common misperception, particularly in media, business and politics, that being a jerk is a necessary ingredient on the way to becoming and staying successful.But there’s no data to support this. Sure, some people succeed despite being jerks, not because of it.For every person who has a reputation as a bully, a deal breaker, an intimidator—someone who fights for every scrap—there are many people who succeeded by weaving together disparate communities, by keeping their word, by quietly creating value.Both roads can work. The presence of jerks at the top confirms this, and so does the predominance of good folks.The problem with the jerk path is not that it isn’t more effective, it’s that you have to spend your days being a jerk.  END"}
{"prompt": "Hollow inside ###", "completion":"What’s inside the Leaning Tower of Pisa?Nothing. It’s a hollow tube.One of the most iconic buildings in the world is empty.But that’s okay, because the building doesn’t make any promises about what’s inside. There’s no expectation, no offer of engagement. It merely is.Chocolate Easter rabbits are a different story. You can’t help but feel ripped off when you discover that they’re hollow.When we bring a brand to the world, it’s rare indeed that people are okay with it having nothing inside. The wrapper matters, but so does the experience within.  END"}
{"prompt": "Paper clips and string ###", "completion":"All software is held together with patches, shortcuts and cruft.(Many old houses are as well).Don’t be surprised. Expect it.At some point, you’ll need to take a deep breath and pay a bunch of money to start fresh. And then, the very next day, there will be paper clips and string accumulating again.That’s how it works. And it’s a miracle that it works at all.(In fact, architecture, design, all the corners of our culture–it’s an evolving process, with cobwebs, repavings, repairs, potholes and improvements. We’d like to believe in the shiny perfect thing, but it’s rare indeed. Even your smartphone has the wabisabi of unused apps and bugs to be avoided.)  END"}
{"prompt": "Shipping the work ###", "completion":"A few years ago, I self-published a workbook called the Shipit Journal. It instantly sold out, so I went back to press two more times, and they sold out as well.The Shipit Journal works for a simple reason: It’s difficult to write things down. Difficult to break a project into small pieces and take ownership over each one. Mostly, it’s difficult to announce to yourself and to your team that you’re actually on the hook to do great work.I’m delighted to let you know that the journal is back, but it a much more beautiful format. Created in conjunction with my namesake moo.com, you can find it right here.It’s a blank book, but one with words in it. Designed to have you add the rest of the words, to write in it, to commit, to share, to ultimately make a ruckus.Thanks for checking it out. Here’s a quick video look at the new Focus Journal:  END"}
{"prompt": "A source of stress ###", "completion":"Wanting to do two things at the same time.If you’re on the stairmaster at the gym, you’re engaged in a workout voluntarily.But if your job involved standing on a stairmaster all day, every day, you’d be stressed out. Because you want to stay (you need the paycheck) and you want to leave.A volunteer fireman feels totally different about a burning building than someone who is trapped in one.That’s because the volunteer goes in on purpose.The distinction (and the stress) comes down to the word but.I need to do this but I hate it.I have to stay but I want to go.The external forces might not be changeable, but our use of the word but can be.If it’s what you want to do, then do it. Dropping the but costs you nothing and saves you stress.  END"}
{"prompt": "Old buildings on the edge of town ###", "completion":"We’re not going to be here long.That’s because this project isn’t going to work and we can’t afford to stay, orbecause this project is going to work and we’re going to move up.That’s a pretty profound thing for some real estate to say about its corporate tenant. And the employees absorb it each and every day.Compare that to a bank in the big building in the middle of town… They’re in maintenance mode, how could they not be? It’s too hard to move—up, down or out.Choose your metaphor, choose your narrative. It’s not just your office, of course. It never is.[For those intent on moving up, consider applying to the altMBA. The last session of the year happens this fall.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Our engineering ratchet ###", "completion":"Quietly, over the last thirty years, engineering has become dramatically more efficient and effective.Insulated glass, cars that don't break down, keyboards with just the right feel to them… Mechanical, electrical and chemical engineering are all moving faster than ever.Several factors are at work: Computer aided design and engineering means that smaller teams can do more, faster.The internet shows engineers the state of the art immediately, so everyone is working off the latest benchmark.Markets are more open to levelling up… new innovations that translate to productivity are adopted more easily.There's an expectation that better is possible, so organizations are hooked on seeking out better. The ratchet turns the ratchet. When we're in the middle of it, we don't see it. But travel back in time just a bit and you'll see that few things worked as well as they do now.  END"}
{"prompt": "Smooth water ###", "completion":"Everything moves better in smooth water. Engineers spend a lot of time and energy to avoid cavitation, the often dangerous bubbles that are caused by pumps or propellers. And sailors and surfers prefer to do their thing without excess chop.As we apply pressure to an organization, the same thing happens. At first, people engage with change as an opportunity, doing their best work in the face of small shifts. But once fear sets in, so does cavitation. The cavitation, the bubbling, the uncertainty, the expansion and collapse of bubbles of doubt and disagreement—this becomes the primary problem, more than the fear that originally caused the issue.The challenge is to avoid this before it happens. To insert pressure relief valves, smooth out the bends, and give the energy a place to go.The stories we tell each other will lead to the actions we take.  END"}
{"prompt": "Walking away from fast twitch ###", "completion":"Sports gurus are happy to talk about the difference between fast and slow twitch muscles. And it resonates with us, because we fully understand the ping-pong reflexes that are so often celebrated and often fun to do as well.On our project, it’s tempting to spend all of our time in fast twitch mode. To scan the incoming, grab the urgent, set it up and slam it back.But if we spend all of our time twitching, we’ll never do the difficult work of the non-urgent. Important work requires a daily commitment, one that isn’t sidelined by every emergency, because there’s always an emergency, isn’t there?  END"}
{"prompt": "Everything is an experiment ###", "completion":"If we’re seeking to make change, to make a contribution, the outcome is part of the work. If the outcome repeatedly doesn’t measure up, we should change what we’re doing.And evidence is everywhere. More proof, more data, more insight about how it worked…The thing is, much of the time, we willingly ignore the evidence. When we’re the consumers of the change, we insist on evidence-based treatment. We want doctors and software and teachers that do something that works. We want to get better, we want the computer to not crash, and we want to learn things effectively and quickly…But often, as practitioners, we ignore the evidence in favor of what feels ‘right’, or because of our attachment to a narrative or what we’ve done before. We stand on principle, not results.So, before presenting the evidence, before assuming that people will change their work in response to the data, we need enrollment. We have to ask for a commitment. If the evidence shows that there’s a better way to do this, are you open to changing?It takes guts to answer this honestly. It takes guts to say, no matter what the evidence says, no matter how effective or ineffective this is shown to be, I’m going to stand on principle or status or tradition or belief…It took more than twenty years for Ignaz Semmelweis’ clear evidence about the cause of maternal deaths to be accepted. And more than a century later, it took just as long before doctors in the 1960s and 70s accepted that ulcers were caused by bacteria, not pastrami sandwiches.What are we doing about the evidence related to incarceration for low-level drug offenses, for Head Start, for Meals on Wheels, for teaching to the test, for gun deaths, for philanthropy?The first agreement is to look at the evidence. Or not.  END"}
{"prompt": "Do you know enough? ###", "completion":"When did you reach the point where you didn't need to read another research report, didn't need to absorb another scouting analysis, didn't need to stop by the bookstore… because it simply wasn't useful or efficient to learn another thing about your field?It's not that difficult to extend this thinking. Of course, you know enough about literature to teach literature, or enough about AC engineering to do your job. But where to draw the line? Do you know enough about the arguments and goals of political movements you're not a part of? The innovations of new restaurants in your town? The impressive new music coming out of Nigeria?Too much too choose from, too little time.But certainly, we don't know enough. About anything.  END"}
{"prompt": "Books worth reading ###", "completion":"The Art of Gathering, by Priya Parker. A long overdue and urgent manifesto for anyone who has the temerity (and generosity) to organize the time and energy of a team in order to call a meeting.The Artist’s Journey, the latest from Steve Pressfield, an essential compass, road map and kick in the pants.Coming soon, the much anticipated Eat Their Lunch from Anthony Iannarino.Full House, twenty years old, from Stephen Jay Gould, about variation, evolution and of course, Ted Williams.Tom Peters’ latest: The Excellence Dividend, is classic Tom on every page.Chasing Space, by Leland Melvin is a memoir from a real hero.Annie Duke knows how to make decisions. You should too.The Heart to Start is solid advice from David Kadavy. It’s not too late.Scott McCloud‘s classic book on comics will change the way you see.Fresh India, by Meera Sodha, is the book I’m cooking from the most lately. And everyone who eats should own a copy of The Food Lab.And if you haven’t read Your Turn, today’s a great day to leap.  END"}
{"prompt": "Business/busyness ###", "completion":"Our time is worth something. Too often, though, we’re guilty of spending it foolishly or out of habit, or without intention… despite our lousy track record, though, it is possible to spend it wisely, just as we try to spend or invest anything valuable.We wouldn’t buy medicine that we knew didn’t work, or invest in ads that never ran. It seems, though, that time doesn’t have to meet the same bar.If you had a factory job, it wasn’t your job to worry about productivity. Somebody else was in charge. You did what you were told, all day, every day.Now, more than ever, you’re likely to be running a team, managing a project or deciding on your own agenda as a free agent. Time is just about all you’ve got to spend.And yet, we hardly talk about productivity.Productivity is the amount of useful output created for every hour of work we do.You can measure that output in money if you want to (it makes the math easier) but in fact, it’s everything from lives changed to knowledge shared. What matters is the answer to a simple question: did I spend my day producing enough benefit for all the time invested?A teacher has a class for 160 days—an hour a day … How to spend that time, how to spend today, how to spend the next five minutes? What’s the most productive choice?Henry Ford and the other productivity pioneers of the industrial revolution understood this to their bones. He designed the Model T to be efficient to build. As a result, each of his workers produced far more value per day than they could working at a competitor down the street on a car that wasn’t as thoughtfully engineered.Since his workers were more productive, he could charge less for the car. Since they were more productive, he could pay them more and thus get better workers. And since they were more productive, he could invest in advertising and brand building. The end result is that the car industry went from 2,300 companies (!) to a dozen or so.It’s worth pausing there for a second. The competitors didn’t have workers who tried less, or who took more breaks or who were weaker, less skilled or lazy. The other companies lost because Ford focused on productivity in a way that they didn’t.The internet has opened the door for more people to organize and plan their day than ever before. And we’re bad at it.Because we associate busyness with business with productivity.Here are some useful ways to think about it:1. The best way to improve productivity is to measure it. That means identifying the inputs (how much is your time worth? Is there anyone beside you who is working for free, trading favors, burning all the candles?) and identifying the outputs (what’s the worthy final output of all your effort?)Hint: likes and friends are not an output. Social media might offer metrics that tell you if you’re moving toward what you hope to produce, but don’t confuse the map with the territory. As soon as you try to make a temporary metric go up at the expense of the real goal, you’re on your way to mere busyness.2. Once you know what you seek to produce (not an easy task), add up all the time you spent to create it. That’s your current productivity. So, for example, if you’re a musician and you have to work 60 hours on the side to organize, prepare for and run a gig that makes you $600 in revenue, your productivity is $10 of value created per hour. Given that your time is finite, the objective is to compare time spent on that project with time spent on an alternative one. If you need 120 hours to write, mix and launch a track on SoundCloud that earns you $3 in royalties, it’s pretty clear which path created more value (if you’re using money as a metric). Of course, once you decide that being popular on SoundCloud makes those tickets easier to sell, it gets complicated again…3. Get focused on the challenges and benefits of connection. Imagine two buildings under construction. Both have 25 well-trained, well-paid, hard-working construction workers. One building, though, was built in half the time of the other. What happened? It turns out that construction almost always slows down because people are waiting. Waiting for the waterproofing to get done (while they wait for the specialist) or waiting for parts or waiting for another part of the project. The internet is the home of the connection economy, which means that this challenge is multiplied by 100. What are you waiting for? When you’re waiting, what are you doing to create value?4. Unlike factories (which are very special cases) our productivity varies wildly. It depends on the project, on the connections, on where we are in the process. If you’re working the same number of hours every day and getting very different amounts of output each day, it is definitely worth figuring out why. What happens to your output if you quit when you’re done, not at 6 pm? What happens if you take on more of the high-output projects and choose to walk away from the low output ones?5. And finally, embrace the fact that trained people are more productive than untrained ones. That skill matters. That leaning into what you don’t know makes you more productive… that hiring someone who knows what you don’t know makes you more productive as well.Busy is not your job. Busy doesn’t get you what you seek. Busy isn’t the point. Value creation is.You only get today once. Your team does too. How will you spend it?  END"}
{"prompt": "The time/decision gap ###", "completion":"Six years ago, I wrote, You don't need more time, you just need to decide.Easy to say, but hard to embrace.Here's what I meant:Deciding is difficult, because decisions bring responsibility. It's better to not decide, the lizard brain says.How to not decide?Ask for more time.If you have more time, you can move away from the decision. Maybe someone else will make it for you. Maybe it won't need to be made at all.But…That's our work.We don't make stuff as much as we make decisions.  END"}
{"prompt": "The cereal entrepreneur ###", "completion":"One of the biggest shifts of giving up a paycheck to start a new venture is the fact that you gave up a paycheck.Happiness is positive cash flow, and the easiest way to get there is to decrease your spending.An entrepreneur who is sleeping on a friend’s couch and eating corn flakes for breakfast, lunch and dinner is in far better emotional shape than the one who’s the primary support for a family of four in a fancy house in Scarsdale.It’s tempting but difficult to raise money to pay yourself first… investors want to pay for for your organization’s assets and market presence, not your overhead.And it’s difficult to make smart long-term decisions when your narrative of insufficiency is overwhelming.The two tactics, then, go hand in hand: Cut your expenses to the bone before you need to. Every dollar not spent is a dollar you don’t need to raise. Eat cereal, not sushi. (This is the best reason to start a business when you’re in college).Find customers who will happily pay you in advance because your service or product is so useful that they can’t live without it. And if your service or product isn’t that useful, make it better.  END"}
{"prompt": "After now ###", "completion":"That’s a recent idea. To imagine the world in twenty, fifty or a hundred years. Later than later. To consider the long-term impact of our actions. History as a concept is recent and thinking about the future is even more recent.Of course, future generations will be mature enough to think even further ahead. Either that or there won’t be future generations…Many of the long-term forecasts we’re seeing today aren’t particularly rosy. But at least we’re having them, now, when we still have a chance to do something.And yet, some of the long-term forecasts are rosier than we can even imagine. The leaps forward in medicine, energy production and AI are transforming our world even as we live in it.When you’re just a little kid, the idea of thinking about when I grow up is mostly an ill-formed fantasy. And of course, a teenager simply lives for today, and perhaps the weekend.Once you’ve made the choice to be a productive artist, though, someone who seeks to make an impact over time, time is either your friend or your opponent. Time is either something you use as a tool or something that works against you.Part of the appeal of the Focus journal that I did with Moo is that it gives you leverage in your work to shift time. It doesn’t automatically give us long-term thinking, but it plants a seed, a seed that helps us realize that we’re on a journey, not simply at an event.You currently work with people who will be productively working a hundred years from now. In fact, you might be one of those people. When I started posting these notes in 1992, I had no idea I’d be doing it 26 years later. And now I’m hoping that perhaps I’ll be doing it for at least another quarter century.Drip, drip, drip.Time doesn’t fly, not if you refuse to let it. But it does keep moving.PS Ignore Sunk Costs, the latest episode of my podcastAkimbo,is out now.  END"}
{"prompt": "Ignore the questions ###", "completion":"It doesn’t matter what the questions are, really. They’re a prompt.When you’re in a job interview, a podcast interview, a sales call, a meeting… if we take the approach that this is a test and there’s a right answer, we’re not actually engaging and moving things forward.Instead, consider using the question as a chance to see more deeply in what this interaction is for, where are you hoping to go? Focus on status roles, the creation and resolution of tension, and most of all, changing minds.If you’re not working to change minds, why are you here again?  END"}
{"prompt": "Sprints ###", "completion":"How fast can you go?This is different from the question we ask ourselves most days at work. Careers are often seen as marathons, designed to last as long as we do.Sprinting—for an hour, a week or a month—develops a different perspective. It helps us understand our upper limit, establishing a performance setting that reminds us of what’s possible.Not sprinting randomly, erratically, after shiny objects. Sprinting with intent, in a particular direction…No one can sprint all the time. By its nature, that’s not sprinting. But sprinting now and then is a useful way to learn that we can make an even bigger difference.—–PS Today’s the last of the year to apply for the altMBA. An extraordinary group of people from all over the world is assembling in a month-long sprint to level up. I hope you can join in and become part of this.  END"}
{"prompt": "On one foot ###", "completion":"Smart phones can hobble us. They connect us, and do it with persistence, drip by drip. But they also push us to make everything fit on a very small screen for a very short time.Teaching complicated ideas to people on a phone is like trying to teach geography to a bunch of sugared-up kids who just had a triple espresso, while they are standing on one foot being bitten by a swarm of mosquitos.There could be a direct correlation between smart phone usage and underinformed mass behavior.Sometimes it’s worth opening up a laptop and slowing down just a bit.Yes, opening up a laptop might count as slowing down a bit.  END"}
{"prompt": "Emergencies cost extra ###", "completion":"If you work in a field where things need to be delivered by date certain, with zero defects, with high consequences if you make a mistake—then you need to charge a premium for exposing yourself to emergencies.It doesn’t matter what something in a non-emergency situation costs. If someone wants the standard version, let them buy that.The buyer is offered to pull it off the shelf, see if you like it. If it doesn’t satisfy you, take a different one.Emergencies (or even the risk of emergencies) cost extra. Yelling at us costs extra. Panic costs extra.Your entire organization (and your entire day) revolves around preventing the emergency or recovering from it when it occurs.The reason custom work costs more is no longer a matter of production efficiency. Computers are happy to customize things.Big companies that serve other big companies spend at least 80% of their overhead on being ready (or dealing with) meetings and emergencies.The reason to charge more is all about ensurance, insurance and emotional wear and tear.If that’s the sort of work you want to do, charge appropriately.  END"}
{"prompt": "The born salesperson ###", "completion":"There’s no such thing as a born salesperson.What there are… are people with empathy and learned charisma who choose to work hard.If you show up and show up and show up, and care enough to learn to connect, you will have a skill for life.In the meantime, consider getting yourself hooked on 30 minutes a day of audio that trains you to sell. It takes a while, but it’s learnable.Zig Ziglar, Anthony Iannarino, Dan Pink,Brian Tracy,Frank Bettger, Jill Konrath … anyone who will help you learn the long-game, the generous long game.  END"}
{"prompt": "No reason to be surprised ###", "completion":"Now and then, someone comes along who surprises the status quo. She didn’t do well on her SATs but ends up writing a brilliant novel. She didn’t go to a famous college but builds a successful enterprise…The surprising thing isn’t that success is uncorrelated with the filters we’ve set up. The surprising thing is that we think the filters and signals are actually accurately correlated with future success.They’re not.  END"}
{"prompt": "March it down the road ###", "completion":"Sometimes, our work is in opposition. Something is broken, and we need to fix it.But often, we’re working with something that’s fine. All it needs is our care and effort and it will get even better.March it down the road. Not because you’re pushing anyone, or because anyone is pushing you.Simply because it matters.  END"}
{"prompt": "Two kinds of marketing ###", "completion":"There’s the kind that no one can possibly like. The popups, popunders, high-pressure, track-your-private-data, scammy, spammy, interruptive, overpriced, overhyped, under-designed selfish nonsense that some people engage in.And then there’s the kind that inspires us, delights us and brings us something we truly want.We call them both marketing, but they couldn’t be more different.The selfish marketer is marketing at us, trading money for attention to sell average (or below average) products to disinterested people. The excuse is that money needs to be made, or that the boss insists, or that we have no choice…The successful marketer is marketing with us and for us. And she doesn’t need an excuse. PS New episode of Akimbo is out today: Shun the non-believers  END"}
{"prompt": "Inadequacy on parade ###", "completion":"A never-ending stream of pictures. People who are prettier than you, happier than you, more confident than you. Weddings that are fancier than yours was, with sun-dappled trees, luscious desserts and delighted relatives. Or perhaps it’s the status updates from everyone who is where you aren’t, but wish you were.And the billboards and the magazine ads always show us the people we’d like to be instead of the people we are.In the short run, gazing at all this perfection gives us a short hit of dopamine, a chance to imagine what it might be like.Over time, though, the grinding inadequacy caused by the marketing machine wears us down.It’s okay to turn it off. PS Consider The Bootstrapper’s Workshop. Today, Sunday, is the last day to sign up for it, and we’re not sure when it will run again. If it’s for you, please don’t miss it.Since it began just a few weeks ago, there have been 500,000 pageviews, more than 15,000 user visits and 31,000 posts. All from people on a journey similar to yours, one in search of a sustainable model for creating significant value and earning a living while doing it.The workshop is open for more than two more months. Hope you can join in.  END"}
{"prompt": "Zeige Deine Wunde (show me your wound) ###", "completion":"Joseph Beuys didn't make pretty art.When I was 12, I saw an exhibit he had at the Guggenheim in NY. As its centerpiece was a 3,000 pound block of lard, wrapped in felt. It was bizarre, it smelled a bit and forty or more years later, I haven't forgotten it.Beuys was transformed by near-death experiences he had as a youth. And that wound informed the art that he made. He shared his pain and more than that, the route to his salvation.This isn't what we want from everything in our lives. We often choose convenience, solace or reassurance. But more often than we realize, the dance with fear and mortality and risk that others engage in becomes part of our cultural landscape.  END"}
{"prompt": "The daily ###", "completion":"Is there something you do every day that builds an asset for you?Every single day?Something that creates another bit of intellectual property that belongs to you?Something that makes an asset you own more valuable?Something that you learn?Every single day is a lot of days. It’s easy to look at the long run and lull yourself into skipping a day now and then.But the long run is made up of short runs.[And a first reminder that the February (!) session of the altMBA is now accepting applications. I hope you’ll consider it.]  END"}
{"prompt": "In search of your chord ###", "completion":"There are 88 keys on a piano.64 colors in the big box of Crayola.You can’t own a key and you can’t own a color.But once you start combining elements, the possibilities go way up.The opening chord of a Hard Day’s Night is a unique signature. So are the colors in a Lilly Pulitzer dress.Your work can struggle to fit in. Or you can do the hard work of having it stand out.As you can see from the notes on the single chord the Beatles developed, it’s not obvious or simple. And most of the time, it doesn’t even work. But if you find a chord and stick with it, again and again, for years, then, over time, it might become yours.  END"}
{"prompt": "High value ###", "completion":"… is not the same as low price.The price is obvious. It can be seen from a mile away. But value is more subtle. It often needs to be experienced to be understood.The price is the same for every person who buys that item at retail. The value is different for everyone.Low price is the last refuge for marketers who don’t have the patience or guts to demonstrate value for those that need it.  END"}
{"prompt": "We learn as we go ###", "completion":"If we stop going, we stop learning…andIf we're not willing to keep learning, we should probably stop going.  END"}
{"prompt": "Today is the best day ###", "completion":"And now is the best time.If you're doing something generous, if you're building something worthwhile, if you're making an important ruckus…Do it today.You don't need more time, you simply need to decide.  END"}
{"prompt": "Kettle logic ###", "completion":"Originally the work of lawyers, it’s a concept that’s spreading, aided by the immediacy and unfiltered nature of social media.In short: When you use contradictory excuses/statements to make an argument. Freud used this example:A man who was accused by his neighbour of having returned a kettle in a damaged condition. He offered three arguments in rebuttal.I returned the kettle undamagedIt was already damaged when I borrowed itI never borrowed it in the first placeThis is a dumb way to win a logical argument, because without a doubt, you’re lying in at least some of these statements.Kettle logic is actually a glimpse into how the emotional side of our brain works. And of course, the emotional side is 95% of our brain. It’s squirming and the words simply get spun out.When a customer or colleague begins to use kettle logic, the useful response is to seek out the emotions behind it. Because dismantling the logic part of kettle logic does nothing to get you closer to what the person really needs to talk about.  END"}
{"prompt": "Like burning a hammer for heat ###", "completion":"Yes, it's true that your hammer has a wooden handle.But throwing it in the fireplace to get a few BTUs out of it is a huge waste.The same thing is true of your reputation, of the relationships you have, of your hard-won trust.Don't burn it just because you're a little chilled.  END"}
{"prompt": "Mistakes, failures and problems ###", "completion":"A mistake is something you learn from… you did it wrong, you’ll do it better next time.A marketing failure is a mismatch between what you built and the market.And a problem is an invention waiting to be built, an invitation to find a solution.  END"}
{"prompt": "The first 1,000 are the most difficult ###", "completion":"For years, I’ve been explaining to people that daily blogging is an extraordinarily useful habit. Even if no one reads your blog, the act of writing it is clarifying, motivating and (eventually) fun.A collection of daily bloggers I follow have passed 1,000 posts (it only takes three years or so…). Fortunately, there are thousands of generous folks who have been posting their non-commercial blogs regularly, and it’s a habit that produces magic.Sasha, Gabe, Fred, Bernadette and Rohan add value to their readers every day, and I’m lucky to be able to read them. (I’m leaving many out, sorry!) You’ll probably get something out of reading the work of these generous folks, which is a fabulous side effect, one that pays huge dividends to masses of strangers, which is part of the magic of digital connection.What I’ve found is this–after people get to posting #200 or beyond, they uniformly report that they’re glad they did it. Give it a try for three or four months and see what happens…  END"}
{"prompt": "Just because you don’t understand it ###", "completion":"…doesn’t mean it isn’t true.…doesn’t mean it isn’t important.If we spend our days ignoring the things we don’t understand (because they must not be true and they must not be important) all we’re left with is explored territory with little chance of improvement.  END"}
{"prompt": "The problem with people is that they outnumber you ###", "completion":"It doesn’t make any sense to spend your life proving them wrong, it’s a losing battle.Far more effective is the endless work of building connection, forming alliances and finding the very best you can in those you engage with.You can’t possibly know what it’s like to be someone else, but it’s also true that no one knows what it’s like to be you.One more reason to put in the effort to find the good.  END"}
{"prompt": "Non-profit overhead ###", "completion":"Skeptical non-donors often point to the amount a charity spends on non-direct spending as a reason to hesitate in contributing. It’s easy to imagine that a cause that spends 90% of what it raises on direct action (not HQ, not salaries, not fundraising) is better than one that spends 80%.We say we care about overhead, but what we really care about is impact, or status, or momentum. What we measure isn’t a simple percentage, it’s a lot deeper than that.Waste isn’t a good thing. Of course not. But leaving aside the football teams and the jets at some colleges, those high salaries at some non-profits might just be buying insights and effort that you can’t get any other way. And those leaders might be bringing strategic insights and efficiencies to their cause that a well-meaning bootstrapper just can’t deliver.Everywhere else in our lives, we happily invest in the best solution to our problem. Whether it’s surgery, vegetables or a designer, we seek to invest in expertise and resources that not only fit our budget but get the job done.If a problem is worth solving, it’s worth engaging with the right people to solve it with urgency, isn’t it?  END"}
{"prompt": "Ambidextrous ###", "completion":"Anthropologists have found that we’re very motivated to divide into teams, and once on a team, we’ll work hard to degrade the other team. Over the smallest differences. For the smallest possible stakes. Even when we get no other benefit than thinking that we won something.We spend a lot of time sorting people into buckets. We label them in order to treat them differently and establish expectations for how they’ll respond. Mostly to figure out which team they’re on. An email from a stranger causes us to spend some time guessing their status, gender and connection to us.Which team?Strangely, we don’t care so much about whether someone is right handed or left handed. We don’t waste cycles on dividing people by whether they can curl their tongue or even if they can play the piano.I totally understand our caring about Yankees vs. Red Sox. About seeking out team affiliation when team affiliation is a choice, when it’s intentionally competitive, when it tells us something about what’s going to happen next.But if we’re not sure of someone’s gender, religion, citizenry, sexual orientation or race, we can get very uptight. Ambidextrous (unsorted) in these areas is a problem, apparently, even though there’s no relationship (zero) between the things that matter (attitude, skills, talents) and the easily measured team affiliation that we all seem so concerned about.And that leads to a great opportunity. If you can be the person who coordinates the work of people regardless of their designated unasked-for affiliation, you’ll be able to find brilliant contributors that others foolishly overlook.The room has more room than ever for those willing to be ambidextrous, to follow a path that’s not previously defined. Work with them or get out of their way.  END"}
{"prompt": "Stet ###", "completion":"There’s a term in copyediting called stet.That’s what you write when you want the copyeditor to not make the indicated change. It’s probably Latin for, leave my best work alone, please.Too often, in a committee, we bend to the fear of those that would prefer we fit in, dumb it down and average it out.Better, I think, to simply say, stet. No drama, no explanation. Simply, stet.Your work is worth it.  END"}
{"prompt": "The antidote ###", "completion":"It’s worth picking a philosophy that’s self correcting.The antidote to junk science is more science, good science. Science is a self-correcting process, where transparency leads to improvement.The antidote to bad engineering is more engineering. Engines and bridges run better today than they did a hundred years ago.The antidote to blind obedience to unexamined edicts and principles, though, isnot more obedience. It doesn’t self correct. It gets worse.[For those interested in constructive innovation instead of obedience, please consider the altMBA. Today’s the early deadline for our next session.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Make better promises ###", "completion":"We spend so much of our time keeping promises, fretting about promises, whittling down promises… that we rarely put the effort into creating better ones.More generous.More urgent.More personal.Your brand is a promise and your work is delivering on it.What have you promised us lately?  END"}
{"prompt": "Lumpers and splitters ###", "completion":"There are two interesting ways to solve a problem, find a startup or even write a blog post.You can lump two previously disparate categories into one.Or you can split a previously coherent category into two or more pieces.Amazon is a lumper. They lumped 1,000 individual markets for bookstores into one giant one. They lumped dozens of different kinds of retail stores into one big one.A high-end barber shop is a splitter. It doesn’t cut all hair. Just men. Not all men, just men who want to spend $50 on the experience.You can choose to lump or to split, but either one will show you a new way forward.  END"}
{"prompt": "Lottery math is human math ###", "completion":"It’s irrational to buy a lottery ticket. And yet, millions do, even more when the prize is huge. The odds of winning the $1.6 billion MegaMillions lottery are vanishingly small. You’re 400 times more likely to be hit by lightning.The benefit of winning a huge lottery prize is not that different, in terms of how it will affect your life, than winning a more ordinary large prize. And yet, every time a lottery hits a record-setting level, more people buy tickets. To be clear: buying this lottery ticket is precisely as rational as paying $800 a day for a device to help to avoid being hit by lightning.So what’s up with this? How do we explain why millions of otherwise sane people will waste $2 entering a lottery that they’re not going to win? And why do it in occasional droves, as opposed to thoughtfully?Because, for some people, some of the time, the lottery is a bargain. The only person who buys a lottery ticket for $2 is someone who, right now, thinks it’s worth more than that.Worth more than that for the feeling of possibility, hope or relief that they feel just before they found out they lost, and the feeling goes away, only to return when they play again.Worth more than that for the pleasure of being part of a mass sensation, at least for a moment.Worth more than that because the alternative, the gnawing feeling of being left behind, is worth avoiding for just two dollars.The surprising thing isn’t that we’re irrational about how we spend our time and money. It’s how much effort we put into lying about it.  END"}
{"prompt": "But he paid extra ###", "completion":"We come up with lots of reasons to work with jerks.We take an investment from a jerk investor instead of a kind one.We accept a job from a bully instead of someone who will nurture and challenge us with worthwhile work.And we take on a customer who denigrates our team and our work instead of embracing the good ones…The most common reason is that they pay us more. A better valuation, a better hourly rate.That’s not a good enough reason. We pay for it many more times than we get paid for it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Three kinds of corporate mediocrity ###", "completion":"Uncaring mediocrity, in which employees have given up trying to make things betterFocused mediocrity, in which the organization is intentionally averageAccidental mediocrity, in which people don’t even realize that they’re not delivering excellenceUncaring mediocrityis the most common form, and it often accompanies scale. It’s the accidental outcome that comes from trying to emulate an organization that’s focused on its mediocrity.The mechanization and industrialization of cottage industries (like hotels, restaurants and healthcare) has led to a convenient homogenization for many. It means you can travel around the world and find better than decent accommodations and safe food, all at a fair price.But it also means that most of the people working in these entities are treated like interchangeable cogs. They have no say at all about how things are done (or at least feel that way) and so they’ve emotionally checked out. It’s easier that way.The products and services revert to the mean, sucking the humanity out of not just the people who work there, but from the interactions the customers have as well.If you have a lousy meal at a real restaurant, the owner could hear from you and, it’s likely, not only fix it, but get back to you. Have a lousy experience with a Host, a Taco Bell, or a JW Marriott, though, and the odds are that the individual who reads your review has never even visited the place you’re talking about, and certainly doesn’t care enough to do anything about it.One of the promises of the worldwide behemoth corporation was that reliability and quality was assured. The downside is that the chances that an internal insurgent can make things better go down.As we see so many organizations seek to emulate the scale, influence and profits of the Fortune 100, it’s worth remembering that uncaring mediocrity shouldn’t be a north star.Focused mediocrity is different. It’s intentional. It’s the act of chasing the banal, so that the largest possible number of people will be satisfied enough not to complain. This is the sieve of deliverability and the sword of mass.The third kind of mediocrity happens when someone is uninformed. When they’re too busy or too lazy to pay attention to the taste of those they seek to serve or they don’t care enough to deliver it with quality and humanity.At least have the guts to be mediocre on purpose.  END"}
{"prompt": "People like us — an update on This is Marketing ###", "completion":"My new book launched about two weeks ago. Thanks to you, it went to #1 on the Wall Street Journal business bestseller list, made the New York Times list and best of all, has led to an ever-growing series of conversations about the ideas inside. The collectible(all gone, sorry) multiplies that by eight.One of the best reasons to create a print book is that it becomes a direct way to establish what people like us are talking about. And a third of our sales are in the audio edition, which is a fascinating insight into how people are consuming ideas now.Thank you to every single person who contributed, who shared, who took a leap. I appreciate it. Can’t wait to see what you do with the ideas inside.  END"}
{"prompt": "90% of coaching is self-coaching ###", "completion":"A cherry can’t grow without the pit. The drupe works because it uses the pit as instigation, a foundation to go forward from.The same is true for the way most of us engage with a coach. That basketball coach screaming from the sidelines? There’s no way the player can hear what he’s saying. That’s okay. The shift is happening inside.And the coaching that happens with a good boss or inside a program like the altMBA? The theory is the same. Your preparation for an upcoming meeting, the voice in your head as you think about your choices, the knowledge that you’re accountable for your actions–all of these end up weaving into the future version of you.It’s entirely possible to coach yourself. To develop internal habits and standards that help you ratchet forward, drip by drip. But when you find yourself alone in a co working space, or isolated from good leadership, or wondering about what’s next, it might just be a signal that you’re missing the 10% from the core, the seed that you can build on and then internalize.Sooner or later, all motivation is self motivation. And the challenge and opportunity is in finding the external forces that will soon become internal ones.  END"}
{"prompt": "Is there a marketing person leading the IT team? ###", "completion":"Because the IT team is interacting with your customers. And they call them users. Or ignore them.The local bank, for example, decided that adding a seventh and eighth digit to its two-factor authentication system would make it more secure (it’s a vanishingly small difference, but that’s a story for another day.) I’m sure that they didn’t consider the cost to the thousands of customers who will use it millions of times of day. Remembering 43948394 is very different than remember 439234.Or consider this note from the TTP website:Please remember to revisit our website for your application status updates. Notification of when you may schedule an interview appointment (if one is needed) will only be posted here.Check back when? How often?While it might be more convenient for them to forego sending out some sort of email or text alert, it’s definitely a fraught moment for the customer, the paying customer who is either going to forget, or not read this at all, or miss the appointment…Marketing used to be advertising.Now, marketing is everything you do. And what you do either adds to the experience or takes away from it.If your company lives and dies by software, where are the marketers on your software team?  END"}
{"prompt": "String too short to be saved ###", "completion":"Poet Donald Hall told the story of a hermit in New Hampshire, a man who passed away leaving behind sheds full of hoarded stuff.In one of the sheds was a box labeled, string too short to be saved.That’s what we do with the trivia that gets in the way of our best work. The tiny slights, the small rejections, the bumps in the road that could be easily forgotten. Ideas too useless to be saved.But we save them nonetheless.This is the cruft that keeps us from moving forward.What happens when we treasure the memories that serve as fuel, and ignore the rest?  END"}
{"prompt": "Where’s the edge? ###", "completion":"The world is not flat.The easiest way to demonstrate that is with a simple question, one that challenges unexamined belief with the need to understand how things work. If it’s flat, there’s an edge. Where is it?Once we understand how things work, we have a chance to interact with them. Not with memorization or rote or politics, but with practical effort.First, though, we need to understand the mechanism.If you want to take a hot shower, it pays to turn the hot tap on all the way until the water gets hot, then adjust the cold to end up with something comfortable.That’s because the water that’s supposed to be hot, the water that’s stuck in the wall between the shower and the hot water heater, is cold. Once you flush out that leftover cold water, you’ll see the hot water arrive.You don’t have to be a plumber to understand the system, you simply have to be curious. And willing to test to see what works.The sun rises every morning. That doesn’t happen because the sun moves. It happens because the sun mostly stays still and the Earth rotates on its axis. No need for human sacrifice or much in the way of hope to see the sun rise again tomorrow. This used to be so controversial that it was seen as a matter of life and death. But once you understand the system, you can see that it is without controversy.Too often, we take the lazy way out and teach our kids to memorize the status quo instead of challenging them to understand how the world works.Too often, when the world around us changes, it’s convenient to stop looking for the edge, to blame the outcomes and fail to do the work to understand the system. We take the system for granted in every element of our lives, from our work to our morning shower.The most pressing example: Climate change isn’t politicalunless we make it so. It’s everything around us and the world we live in, and understanding it is more urgent than ever.  END"}
{"prompt": "Denying the heart ###", "completion":"If you want to annoy someone with back pain, tell them it might be in their head.And if you want a medical practitioner to feel disrespected, you might try bringing up the placebo effect and how it’s often more effective than ‘real’ medicine.Engineers and marketers often get stressed when we talk about emotion and dreams instead of rfps, features and benefits…The thing is, we’re not automatons, computers making Vulcan-like decisions.And that’s okay.It’s better than okay. It permits us to bring heart and soul and magic to our work.Instead of feeling disrespected because you’re seen as working with human emotions, perhaps it’s worth realizing that it’s a rare privilege, one with unlimited leverage and responsibility.[Tomorrow is the early-decision deadline for the altMBA. Preference is given to those that care enough to commit early. Hope you can join us.]  END"}
{"prompt": "An inconvenient shopping list ###", "completion":"Cyber Monday (inspired by its evil cousin, Black Friday) is a symptom of our obsession with convenience. As Tim Wu has pointed out, convenience trumps privacy, morality and good judgment for too many of us–the internet has made things faster, and faster has become faster, and faster has become the point.Here’s a list of some gifts and expressions of friendship that aren’t nearly as convenient, that involve independent sellers and crafters and that you have plenty of time for if you plan ahead… Starting close to home, consider the This is Marketing 8-pack, with custom covers, from 800 CEO Read. For the baker in your life, this grain mill is a game changer. Now you can buy local rye, wheat or other grains and grind and bake fresh. I like the Komo, which you can get from Pleasant Hill.Also for anyone with an oven, a sheet of 1 foot by 1 foot steel for your oven will totally change the way you make pizza or almost anything else, even if you go with the convenient path and buy frozen. In the EU or the US, or you can save some money by seeking out a local sheet steel supplier. A handmade knife from Japan is an heirloom waiting to happen. Korin is a reliable place to start. And there are local artisans making beautiful knives everywhere.Your local favorite restaurant also sells gift certificates. Who knew? What a great excuse to treat a friend to dinner and conversation. (Local bakeries too). Do you have a friend who doesn’t like chocolate? If so, get new friends. For the rest of us, there’s Shawn Askinosie and his mission to make the delicious ethical. Not enough people carry an official Star Trek communicator in their pocket. If you give someone a box of beautiful custom stationery, they’ll send more beautiful handwritten notes. A gift that truly keeps giving. Plan (far) ahead and grow some heirloom plants. Or give the seeds as a gift. Books, blankets and t-shirts that contain the entire text of a book. Litographs even has The Princess Bride by the late William Goldman. Peeps are an extraordinary device, one that every human with a pair of eyeglasses will be blown away by. And at $15, you’ll be thought of every day of the year… Buy extra, they have a habit of being borrowed. Rubber chickens are always a crowd pleaser.Finally, a trend that’s starting slowly but is gaining traction is the idea of giving a gift on behalf of someone you care about to a cause that matters. Perhaps one that’s not glamorous, convenient or easy, but important nonetheless. Consider any of these dozens of worthy causes, vetted by the extraordinary Jodi Spangler. (Click and scroll down to see the list).Here’s to the difficult, time-consuming and inconvenient.  END"}
{"prompt": "The race ###", "completion":"That place you’re going, at breakneck speed, the one that requires shortcuts, hustle and compromises…What will happen when you get there?—–Thanksgiving is my favorite holiday. No matter where you live, it’s a chance to forgo the usual drama and instead focus on the people around us and the opportunities we have. Possibility fuels us, and our relationships give us the foundation to make a difference.I’m grateful to each of you, and so many others who have worked so hard to make things better.Enjoy the day.PS tonight’s a great night to use the freeThanksgiving Reader.  END"}
{"prompt": "Hilbert’s list ###", "completion":"In 1900, David Hilbert published a list of 23 problems that he proposed would be the important ones formathematicians to solve in the upcoming century. That list led to a focused effort that lasted a century, and the vast majority of the problems have been fully or partially solved.Ignoramus et ignorabimus is a foolish statement. We can know, and one day, we will.Technology (the technology of connection, of devices and of knowledge) can create a surplus. The cost of light, of transport and of food has dropped by orders of magnitude in just a few lifetimes. Most of us waste electricity, water and other essentials in ways that would have been astonishing just a generation ago. Privileged populations go to the doctor for illnesses that wouldn’t even be a topic for discussion among those with less access to the surplus that we’ve created in access to healthcare.Surely, we can build a better future with technology instead of focusing on autonomous drone delivery of a latte 9 blocks away in San Francisco.As we enter a new year, one in which technology promises to move faster than ever, it’s worth considering what our 23 problems might be. (Hilbert left one off his list, and others have created very different lists–there’s no right answer).A personal list is a great place to start (because, after all, you’ve solved much of what confronted you a decade ago). Technology doesn’t have to be high-tech. It can simply be the hard work of finding generous solutions to important problems, big or small.Our next steps might be far more effective than simple resolutions, which are easily ignored or pushed aside. We can work toward dignity, toward access, toward seeing the world as it is…As citizens, creators and consumers, each of us can also propose a more global list. To get you started, here are some that come to mind for the next decades. Feel free to publish your own list, which is likely to be better informed and more nuanced, but here you go…[This list seems ridiculous until you realize that in the last few generations, we created vaccines, antibiotics, smartphones, GPS and the Furby].1. High efficiency, sustainable method for growing sufficient food, including market-shifting replacements for animals as food2. High efficiency, renewable energy sources and useful batteries (cost, weight, efficiency)3. Effective approaches to human trafficking4. Carbon sequestration at scale5. Breakthrough form for democracy in a digital age6. Scalable, profitable, sustainable methods for small-scale creators of intellectual property7. Replacement for the University8. Useful methods for enhancing, scaling or replacing primary education, particularly literacy9. Beneficial man/machine interface (post Xerox Parc)10. Cost efficient housing at scale11. Useful response to urban congestion12. Gene therapies for obesity, cancer and chronic degenerative diseases13. Dramatic leaps of AI interactions with humans14. Alternatives to paid labor for most humans15. Successful interactions with intelligent species off Earth16. Self-cloning of organs for replacement17. Cultural and nation-state conflict resolution and de-escalation18. Dramatically new artistic methods for expression19. Useful enhancements to intellect and mind for individuals20. Shift in approach to end-of-life suffering and solutions for pain21. Enhanced peer-to-peer communication technologies approaching the feeling of telepathy22. Transmutation of matter to different elements and structures23. Off-planet outpostsIt’s going to get interesting. Especially if we can imagine it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Creating a useful spec ###", "completion":"If you want someone to help, you’ll do better with a spec. It lists just four things: What is the problem to be solved?How are we going to solve it?How can we test that the thing we built matches what we set out to build?How will we know if it’s working? While there are only four steps, the specificity of each step is essential. The spec for a 787 jet, for example, leaves very little room for argument about what’s being created. On the other hand, I’ll know it when I see it, isn’t at all helpful.If you’re not spending at least 5% of your project budget on the spec, you might be doing it wrong.  END"}
{"prompt": "Installing the stupid filter ###", "completion":"I’ve never once had a meeting at 3 am. Not once.My iCal is apparently unaware of this. If I type 3 into the time box on my calendar, it blithely defaults to am.A woman left a tip of more than $5,000 at a kebab shop in Switzerland, because she typed her PIN (5650) when the little card reader was asking her for her tip instead. Of course, she had never left a tip approaching this amount before, but the device was missing a stupid filter.Are you sure? is something humans ask all the time. If you go to an ethical plastic surgeon and announce, through drunken tears, that you want a new nose, new lips, new hips and a skin peel, all at once, she’ll not only ask if you’re sure, but she’ll send you home to think about it first.We keep hearing about how AI is going to take all our jobs. Perhaps it should begin with the job of asking if we’re sure.  END"}
{"prompt": "Go find a ladder ###", "completion":"While it might be fun (or appear expedient, or brave, or heroic) to try to scale a cliff with no tools, it turns out that ladders are a more effective way to level up.When it’s time to drive a nail, a hammer is a lot more useful than a rock. Even if you have to invest in obtaining one.Often, we spend most of our time throwing ourselves at the wall instead of investing the time to find a useful ladder instead.Perhaps, instead of restating our audacious goals, we can spend more time finding useful tools–insights, skills, trust, attention, access–instead.It’s worth the search.  END"}
{"prompt": "The Marketing Seminar returns ###", "completion":"In just about a week, we open the doors for the sixth session of The Marketing Seminar. If you’ve read This Is Marketing, you have an idea of the content, but you might not be familiar with the extraordinary cohort, the innovative learning approaches and the measurable transformations that happen inside. Some of our alumni have been back three times.The last time we opened a marketing seminar was almost eight months ago, so this is a great chance for you to level up.If you share your email address with us atThe Marketing Seminar, we’ll send you a note when it re-opens in about a week.More than 6,600 people have benefitted from this new approach to marketing (and to learning). Ask someone who’s tried it.Enjoy your end-of-year break, and we’ll see you there.  END"}
{"prompt": "If you don’t have time to clean up, you don’t have time to cook ###", "completion":"Professionals understand that the project is the whole project, not simply the fun or urgent or interesting part of the work.There are countless productive shortcuts along the way. But not finishing the project isn’t one of them.  END"}
{"prompt": "We are all poets now ###", "completion":"Poets use words (and silence) to change things. They care about form and function and most of all, about making an impact on those that they connect with.Every word counts. Every breath as well.In a world filled with empty noise, the most important slots are reserved for the poets we seek to listen to, and the poet we seek to become.  END"}
{"prompt": "A commitment to possibility ###", "completion":"Pessimists are right.Optimists are right.Expectations have magical powers.So many people to connect with, so many things to learn. Doors to open, helping hands to be offered.The magic of our time is that forward motion multiplies and ideas can be shared like never before.Of course it could all go sideways. The person who invented the ship also invented the shipwreck.But today’s as good a day as any to commit to possibility.  END"}
{"prompt": "Nobody dabbles at dentistry ###", "completion":"There are some jobs that are only done by accredited professionals.And then there are most jobs, jobs that some people do for fun, now and then, perhaps in front of the bathroom mirror.It’s difficult to find your footing when you’re a logo designer, a comedian or a project manager. Because these are gigs that many people think they can do, at least a little bit.If you’re doing one of these non-dentist jobs, the best approach is to be extraordinarily good at it. So much better than an amateur that there’s really no room for discussion. You don’t have to justify yourself. Your work justifies you.The alternative is to simply whine about the fact that everyone thinks that they can do what you do.The thing is, it might be true.[Hat tip to Kevin Pollak.]  END"}
{"prompt": "In search of specific ###", "completion":"So much pressure to be general, to be all inclusive, to aim for the middle.That’s what meetings push you to do.Advertising.Social.But what if you were specific instead? Precisely for you, not you. Precisely does this, not that.When you’re specific, you only find two kinds of people: people who are delighted, and the rest.Specific can be its own reward.  END"}
{"prompt": "Are you selling to a professional or an amateur? ###", "completion":"A professional is going to buy from someone like you. They’re going to have a process to review the process, a method, an experienced approach to obtaining what they need. A professional isn’t going to think she can do it herselfand isn’t going to make it an emergency.An amateur, on the other hand, may or may not follow any of those principles. An amateur is comparing you to what? A miracle? To free? To something in between?Professionals run the procurement process at Pottery Barn. Amateurs buy a new house every fifteen years. Professionals buy from other professionals. Amateurs ask friends for advice.At scale, a large company in B2B selling has a multi-year approach to finding and working with professionals. Many talented soloists often can’t afford to work as patiently and so they often are exposed to amateurs.It’s okay to sell to amateurs, but one should do it with open eyes.When you don’t get the gig, it’s not because of something you did wrong at any particular meeting with an amateur… the mistake might simply be that you’re having these meetings with amateurs at all. Or that you’re going to amateur meetings expecting to be meeting with a professional.There’s a way to optimize the sales pitch and even better, the service itself for when you are hoping to acquire an amateur on the way up, a chance to turn him into a pro. But perhaps your frustration is that you thought he was a pro in the first place…Different stories for different people.  END"}
{"prompt": "The $37,000 latte ###", "completion":"If you live in the city and grab a coffee or a snack every afternoon for about $4, it’s a vivid example of the cost of debt.You’re either a little behind or a little ahead.Over ten years, if you’re funding that daily purchase with ongoing credit card debt, at $1,000 a year, it’ll cost you $24,408.40, and you might never find the means to repay the debt.On the other hand, if that same $1,000 went into a low-cost investment fund that paid about 7% a year, you’d end up with $13,816.45 in the bank.That’s because interest compounds. It’s because banks like to charge more than they pay out. And it’s mostly because we’re very aware of the short-term and happily ignore the long term.  END"}
{"prompt": "The repetition of stories ###", "completion":"It’s not difficult to maintain a grey cloud and a sullen outlook. The event is long over, but the story remains.A proven approach is to keep repeating the narrative that led us ever deeper into this memory hole. As with a missing tooth, we probe that spot, over and over, examining it from all angles, again and again, in order to keep the story fresh.On the other hand, forgotten stories have little power.And the same approach works for a feeling of optimism and possibility. Repeating stories (to ourselves and others) about good fortune and generosity makes those stories more powerful.What happens to us matters a great deal, but even more powerful are the stories we repeat about what happened.  END"}
{"prompt": "Opportunity costs just went up ###", "completion":"Every choice has a price.If you have $100 to invest and you buy this stock instead of that bond, the interest you gave up in making your choice is your opportunity cost.At the dinner buffet, you can take as much food as you like, but you can only consume so much food. Which means that eating the jambalaya means you won’t have room to eat a dosa. That’s your opportunity cost.Opportunity cost is the key to making decisions. Once you know the value of the alternatives you’re giving up, you can be smarter about what you’re choosing to do.Time is finite. We only get the next hour once, and then it’s gone forever. So choices about how we spend or invest our time come with real opportunity costs.A car with a bumper sticker that says, I’d rather be surfing, tells us a lot about the driver (including the inconsistency of his or her actions). But it’s proof that each of us wrestles with opportunity costs every day.With that in mind, the cost of watching a cat video on YouTube is real indeed.And the internet has raised the opportunity cost of time spent.Our access to the world of learning and online resources means that the alternatives are far more valuable than they used to be.You’re about to spend 11 minutes perfecting an email to a customer. You could do a 90% ideal job in one minute, and the extra 10 minutes spent will increase the ‘quality’ of the email to 92%.The alternative? Now, you could spend that ten minutes reading a chapter of an important new book. You could learn a few new functions in Javascript. You could dive deep into the underlying economics of your new project…Or perhaps you’re about to spend an hour manually cleaning a database or tweaking some image files. You do this every day.Today, though, you could invest an hour in learning to build a macro that will do this recurring job in just a minute a day from now on. Or you could figure out how to hire a trusted freelancer who will do the job on a regular basis for far less than it’s costing you to do it yourself.Next week, the choices you made at the buffet won’t matter much. But if you learn a new skill, you own it forever.Human beings don’t like thinking about opportunity costs. As they approach infinity, it’s easy to get paralyzed. As they get harder to compute, it’s difficult to focus and be mindful of the choices already made. That’s a challenge.But worse, far worse, is to ignore them and fail to learn and connect and level up.  END"}
{"prompt": "Contractor yield ###", "completion":"Imagine you’ve got a set of plans for a simple one-family home. And imagine that you’re a developer with acres of land waiting to be subdivided.You could hire four different contractors and have them build that house on four corners of your land.Within weeks, you’d know which ones were efficient, careful and effective. You’d easily be able to measure their productivity, because they have access to the same suppliers and are building the same house.Is there any doubt at all that the best of them would be dramatically better than the worst? It’s not hard to imagine a 3x difference between the two.And yet, in most fields, like heart surgery, copyediting and continuing education, we fail to do this. In others, though, once we start doing it, it feels like we get carried away and can’t stop.Just because it’s easy to measure doesn’t mean we should (and the opposite is even more true).  END"}
{"prompt": "Relentlessly lowering expectations ###", "completion":"We always compare performance on a relative basis. Well, it’s better than it was yesterday…Toddlers, for example, seem like geniuses compared to the babies they used to be.Some people around us have embraced a strategy of always lowering expectationsso that their mediocre effort is seen as acceptable. Over time, we embrace the pretty good memo or the decent leadership moment, because it’s so much better than we feared.And some? Some relentlessly raise expectations, establishing a standard that it’s hard to imagine exceeding. And then they do.If you’ve been cornered into following, working with or serving someone in the first group, an intervention can be rewarding. For you and for the person trapped in this downward cycle.Raising our expectations is a fine way to raise performance as well.  END"}
{"prompt": "Magical technologies ###", "completion":"Cars are many times more dangerous than airplanes. More dangerous per mile, more dangerous to bystanders, more dangerous in every way.And yet there are very few people who say that they are afraid of being in a car. And yet we spend a fortune on the FAA and more than $8 billion a year in the US on the security theater we do before every flight. We carry life jackets on planes even though they’re needed about once every 33,000,000 flights.That’s because flying is magic and driving is just riding a bike or a horse, but with a motor.The challenge of the self-driving car isn’t that it’s a car with no driver. Actually, the self-driving car is an airplane with wheels.Magical technology.When a magic technology (one that we don’t believe we can understand) arrives and it feels like life or death, our instinct is to freak out, to make up stories, and to seek reassurance. Vaccines have had this challenge for generations. Because they’re long-lasting, involve a shot and feel like magic, we treat them totally differently than the unregulated market for placebos and patent medicines, regardless of their efficacy.If you’re lucky enough to invent a magical technology, be prepared for a long journey. Decades ago, I worked with Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke on two different projects. Asimov was truly embarrassed that he was afraid to fly. And Clarke was famous for saying, Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.What he left out was, Magical technologies that involve media-friendly disasters are the hardest ones to sell.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your customer service strategy ###", "completion":"Customer service isn’t simply an expensive, time-consuming obligation. It’s a strategic marketing investment if you want it to be.When Tony built Zappos, he invested in having his customer service people spend hours on the phone with customers, rewarding them for going to great lengths tocreate memorable interactions. It created a billion dollar shoe store.When Fedexwas building relationships with busy businesspeople who would become the backbone of their customer base, they answered the phone on the first ring, every time.When Apple needed to save the Mac from Windows hegemony, they installed experts at the Genius bar and encouraged them to spend the time needed to humanize a traditionally inhuman interaction.Tesla saw that Ford and GM were working to increase the profits that their dealers would make on service. So they chose to seek to make no money at all on service, using that as a key marketing message to their luxury audience. It’s cheaper than TV ads.Of course, the strategy doesn’t always have to be expensive.When Google launched their search engine, they made it impossible to contact them. They set the expectation that there was zero human customer support. That expectation is a promise made (and one that’s easy to keep). It puts a lot of pressure on the product, of course, but they were up for that.What promise does a local deli owner make? Or the freelancer who drives an hour out of her way to deliver the project on time?A b2b insurance agency spent two million dollars ripping out voice mail from their agency. Every call gets answered by a human every time. It paid for itself in four months. That’s a strategic investment, not a cost-cutting shortcut.Comcast and the other cable companies led the way in treating customer service as nothing but an expense, one that they work overtime to decrease. And so now, it’s not unusual to spend an hour or two trying to get help from Adobe or Apple. Fedexnow takes more than two minutes (up from 2 seconds) to connect a valuable customer to a human operator. Apple, the most valuable company in the world, has shifted its customer support promise to one of denial, delay and disrespect. Was that an intentional strategic act?The thing about strategies is that you and your team can work to maximize them. If answering on two rings is good, then answering on one ring is better. If 10 helpful salespeople are profitable, then 20 very helpful salespeople are better.The truth about strategy in a competitive environment: If you are doing what everyone else is doing, if you are inside the band of common, then it’s not an approach that will move you forward.The only way to use customer service as a growth strategy is to be outside the accepted norms.The question I want to ask the Silicon Valley CEOs that are caught in the uncannyvalley of cutting theircustomer service costs while also puzzling about why consumers don’t like them is: What’s your strategy? Specifically: What’s the reason you’re treating your frontline customer service people as cheap human flotsam, protecting the folks who actually know the answer? What’s the business case for high lifetime value, high acquisition costs and a mindless disregard for customer satisfaction?You can treat your customers like they don’t have a choice, but in the long run, customers always have a choice.  END"}
{"prompt": "The job interview approach ###", "completion":"That meeting on your calendar, the one scheduled for tomorrow. What if it were the final interview for a job you care about?Would you show up on time?Where would you sit?What sort of questions would you ask?What would you wear?Would you reschedule it at the last minute?Why is it okay to act any less professionally than that for a meeting with a co-worker, a salesperson or an entrepreneur looking for funding?It’s entirely possible that we can honor a reflexive property. When we are contributing we can show up with the same enthusiasm we use when we’re asking for something.  END"}
{"prompt": "The thing about the chickens ###", "completion":"Evolution, whether by natural selection or artificial, whether in species or in ideas, is all around us.It happens slowly. Usually more slowly than we’re aware of, and definitely more slowly than we have the patience for.The Economist has a short article about how the price of chicken has fallen by almost 50% in real dollars over the course of my lifetime. We didn’t see it happening, didn’t vote on the benefits and the costs, didn’t realize it was transforming a species (and us).I’m doing a two-part podcast on how creatures (and culture) evolve. You can hear last week’s episode here, and the second part goes to subscribers on Wednesday, January 23.Drip by drip isn’t a crowd pleaser, but that’s what makes real change happen.  END"}
{"prompt": "Choice and obligation ###", "completion":"If it’s an obligation, then you don’t have a choice.Pretending you do is simply a way to create frustration. Free yourself to simply do what you have to do.On the other hand, if you do have a choice (and you probably do) then it doesn’t make sense to treat it as an obligation. Own the choice.  END"}
{"prompt": "The first piece of tape ###", "completion":"I’m sitting on a black couch in the lobby of a nice theater. The couch is cracked and peeling, with seven strips of black gaffer’s tape holding it together. And you don’t have to be an interior geologist to see that it has developed this patina over time, bit by bit.The question is: Who was the first person who decided to fix the couch with tape?The third or fifth person did a natural thing–here’s a ratty couch, let’s keep it the best we can.But the first taper?The first taper decided that it was okay for this theater to have a taped couch. The first taper didn’t make the effort to alert the authorities, to insist on getting the couch repaired properly.The first taper decided, this is good enough for now.This is how we find ourselves on the road to decay. Here’s a new video the team just put together for the altMBA. I hope it resonates with you… PS The early decision deadline for the altMBAis March 1st.  END"}
{"prompt": "Lessons for telling time ###", "completion":"For something as dominant as the four digits that we use to tell time, it’s disappointing that there’s no manual, and not surprising that we do it wrong so often.I’m not talking about the big hand/little hand part of announcing what time it is. I’m focused on how we use our awareness of time to screw up our narrative about life.Here are some examples:We focus on the days, making short-term decisions, instead of being cognizant of the years. We ignore the benefits that short-term pain can have in earning us long-term satisfaction. Which means that we often fail to invest, embracing a shortcut instead.We rehearse the past, obsessing about sunk costs, instead of freeing ourselves up to make new decisions based on new information.We put a stopwatch on our best experiences, ticktocking the moments instead of living in them.But we fail to be honest about the time when we’re in a dip, or unhappy, imagining instead that it is lasting forever.We confuse the thrill of fast-paced media with the magic of doing work that matters, even though they each take just as long.We might have a fancy watch, but that doesn’t mean we’re good at telling time.  END"}
{"prompt": "Five reasons you might want to start a podcast ###", "completion":"You’ll meet some amazing people. Most podcasts are based on interviews, and having a podcast is a fabulous excuse to interview fascinating people.It will help clarify your thinking. You might hesitate to write, but most people don’t hesitate to speak their thoughts. Spending twenty minutes or more to explain something is a great way to understand it.You will earn credibility. Our culture gives extra credit to people who are thoughtful, generous and well-spoken.It’s a productive habit that gets both easier and more useful as you stick with it.It creates an asset, one that people can engage with for years to come.(not a reason) To make a fortune. You won’t. But 1 through 5 are a bargain, because you don’t need a permit, a license or a budget. You can simply begin. Today’s the best day to sign up to join Alex DiPalma and me in thePodcast Fellowship.We’ve run it twice before, and it works better than anyone expected. We’re assembling a cohort of terrific people all on the same journey–to share their ideas and make a ruckus.Alex is a significantforce in the world of podcasting, with experience at NPR and Midroll, and you couldn’t ask for a more insightful and committed guide. She and I have worked together on the Akimbo podcast for more than a year.Lessons start this week, so today’s the day. It’s easy to sign up.Podcasting is a way to find your voice and we’d love to have you join us.  END"}
{"prompt": "Experience and variation ###", "completion":"The only way to learn from experience is to have different experiences.The very nature of an experiment is that there’s a chance you’re doing it wrong, or at least less ‘right’ than the way you usually do it. Which leads to the trap of no new experiences.The only alternative is to eagerly engage with the possible.If you follow the recipe the same way every time, you’ll get the same results every time.  END"}
{"prompt": "Fish in a barrel ###", "completion":"There’s some confusion here.Of course it’s easy to shoot fish in a barrel.The difficult part, the part no one talks about, is getting the fish into the barrel in the first place.  END"}
{"prompt": "Telescopes and microscopes ###", "completion":"It pays to look at opportunity with a telescope. It’s real, but it’s distant. The telescope brings it into focus and helps you find your way there. Telescopes are easy to find if you look for them.And it often pays to look at trouble with a microscope. Not to get intimidated by the amorphous blob that could snuff out your dreams, but instead to look at the tiny component parts, learning how it is constructed and taking away its power. Once you realize how it’s built, you can deal with it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Work before passion ###", "completion":"Offer me something I’m passionate about and I’ll show up with all of my energy, effort and care.That’s a great way to hide.Because nothing is good enough to earn your passion before you do it. Perhaps, in concept, it’s worthy, but as soon as you closely examine the details and the pitfalls, it’s easy to decide it’s better to wait for a better offer.What about considering the opposite?Offer me a chance to contribute, and I’ll work hard on it, with focus, and once I begin to make progress, I’ll become passionate about it.Work before passion measures our craft in terms of contribution, not in an idealized model of perfection.Passion comes from feeling needed, from approaching mastery, from doing work that matters.[HT to Terri Trespicio.] PS Today’s the first day of signups for the now-legendary Podcast Fellowship. I hope you can listen to some of the feedback we got for the first two sessions. Tip: When asked your favorite color, enter leapnowto save some money today or tomorrow.Podcasting is a way to find your voice and we’d love to have you join us.  END"}
{"prompt": "Too important to have a fight about ###", "completion":"Battle lines drawn.Positions solidified.Arguments made.All thrilling, perhaps fun, but unlikely to change minds.If your cause is important enough, it’s worth taking the time and emotional energy to make your case without an argument. The opportunity is to recast your outcome in terms of the other person’s worldview, not insist that they change what they want or what they think they know.The culture isn’t immutable. You can change it.But not by picking a fight.  END"}
{"prompt": "Skill vs planning ###", "completion":"If you’re a gardener, planting orange trees in Ottawa, and nothing’s growing, it’s possible to beat yourself up, burn yourself out and say, I’m a bad gardener.Or,You could realize that oranges aren’t easy to grow in Ottawa. You could either move to Cuba or plant winter wheat instead.But don’t beat yourself up just because the climate doesn’t match your seeds.  END"}
{"prompt": "Busy is not the point ###", "completion":"There’s a common safe place: Being busy.We’re supposed to give you a pass because you were full on, all day. Frantically moving from one thing to the other, never pausing to catch your breath, and now you’re exhausted.No points for busy.Points for successful prioritization. Points for efficiency and productivity. Points for doing work that matters.No points for busy.  END"}
{"prompt": "Choices ###", "completion":"Judge people by where they came from… Judge people by where they’re goingChoices come with responsibility… People can’t be trusted to make good choicesDominate… AffiliateRedemption is possible… Past actions define the futurePeople with authority should be held accountable… People with authority should do what they wantIt’s most efficient to slot people into tracks early… There’s potential in everyoneBecause I said so… Let’s figure it outTalent is inborn… Skill is earnedInvesting in culture change pays off… People are separate from the culturePush people away… Pull people closerConserve it for later… Use it allWait to get picked… Pick yourselfIt takes a village… You can do it by yourselfLook forward… Look backConsume… CreatePossibility… SafetyLead… FollowOpen doors for others… Take what you canAs long as it’s not against the law it’s fine… Do what’s rightPolitics… GovernanceLater… Now  END"}
{"prompt": "Pretending to be stupid ###", "completion":"Intellectual horsepower is overrated.I’m too stupid to do that, isn’t helpful and it’s probably not true.We’re capable of learning Photoshop, We can figure out the arithmetic behind our analytics. We can follow a nuanced discussion of strategy. We can learn to read a balance sheet and we can get sophisticated about long-term decision making.If we’re being honest, the real reason we don’t do this work isn’t that we’re stupid.It’s probably that we haven’t made it a priority.It might be that we’re afraid, that we’re lazy or that we’re underinformed.All three are temporary conditions if we want them to be. Or we can live with them and assume that we’re stupid instead.(Which is worse: to be seen as stupid or to have priorities that don’t match the opportunity?)  END"}
{"prompt": "Bottlenecks ###", "completion":"Are you a bottleneck?Sometimes it’s a good thing. It would be impossible to guzzle a Pepsi if it were served in a saucer–the bottleneck creates the path of maximum slam.It would be difficult to water your lawn without a nozzle. The bottleneck creates pressure that allows you to reach further.But in an organization, a bottleneck can be a real problem.If the project is sitting on your desk, no value is being created. The opportunity, then, is to achieve your goals by getting every single thing off your desk so that it can move forward.A team that is sitting still waiting for you to attend the approval meeting is suffering from your bottleneck. And so are the people you set out to serve.The trick: Figure out which parts of the approval process truly benefit from your unique judgment and skills, and which parts are merely your fear at work.And then get it off your desk and let someone else do it.  END"}
{"prompt": "The long run (and the short runs) ###", "completion":"I hope we can all agree that the long run is made up of a bunch of short runs.That seems obvious.The surprising thing is that we live our short runs as if that isn’t true.  END"}
{"prompt": "It’s not your tribe ###", "completion":"I didn’t say this clearly enough in my book.While there are a few outlier organizations and individuals who ‘have’ a tribe, more often than not, we simply have the privilege to talk to a community, to connect a community and perhaps to lead them for a while.But it’s a mistake to believe that they are ours to do with as we choose.The tribe of people who read Fast Company in the first few years weren’t invented by Alan and Bill. They were organized by them, introduced to each other (and new ideas) by them and challenged by them. But, as the world changed, the tribe found other places to meet those needs.At the watercooler and at the conference, the conversations shifted. It’s impossible to stay at the center of an evolving community for very long. Even for Apple. More profit doesn’t always open the door for more connection.The tribe of people who follow a politician are rarely aligned with her, personally. Instead, they’re aligned with each other, with the way it feels to be part of this movement. Over time, the tribe and the leader inevitably drift apart.The tribe of people who listen to Dave and Nastassia are into food and drink. But if Cooking Issues went away, the tribe wouldn’t disappear. When Booker and Dax produce a device for the tribe, that’s precisely what they’re doing. Doing it for the tribe, not to them. Most outsiders might wonder what it’s for, or hesitate at the price, but for those in the heart of the community, it’s a no-brainer, right here and right now.Tribal leaders are in a hurry, a race to connect and inspire. Tribal leaders dig deep to be seen, sure, but mostly to see. To see what the group believes and fears, and to help them get to where they hope to go.The realization that the tribe is already there, just waiting for you to contribute, is energizing. And the fact is that while we get the benefit of the doubt—that the tribe is open to hearing from you—they’re not yours.  END"}
{"prompt": "Almost no one ###", "completion":"Every time you talk about reaching everyone, that you imagine changing the world, you should fine yourself a nickel.It’s almost impossible to reach everyone.The most popular podcast in the world has reached one out of every 2,000 people on the planet. By a rounding error, that’s not nearly everyone, in fact, it’s essentially no one.The same is true for the most popular salsa, the bestselling writer and the leading non-profit.You’re going to reach virtually no one.That’s okay.The question is: which no one?Your smallest viable audience holds you to account. It forces a focus and gives you nowhere to hide.But first, you need to choose.  END"}
{"prompt": "Data into information ###", "completion":"It takes discernment to do this.Most problems don’t require more data. They require more insight, more innovation and better eyes.Information is what we call it when a human being takes data and turns it into a useful truth.  END"}
{"prompt": "Clearing the table ###", "completion":"Centralized control is fabulous until it isn’t.Centralized control gives us predictable, reliable, convenient results. Until it suffocates.Google promises websites free attention at a time when attention is harder than ever to obtain.It promises fast, convenient search at a time when people prize fast and convenient more than ever.And it promises targeted clicks for a known price to anyone who is willing to pay for them at a time when marketers are figuring out how to measure in the digital domain.But the three promises are undermined by the company’s need to keep growing in profitability.Google controls what gets built in many corners of the web. If your project isn’t Google-friendly, it probably won’t get built. If it used to be Google-friendly but it isn’t anymore, it will disappear.If there are twenty search engines delivering traffic to a wide variety of sites, diversity will come from that competition. But when there’s just one, then the human decisions about what gets traffic and what doesn’t (largely based on what makes Google a profit and what doesn’t) change the very nature of what we see and interact with.This centralized control gives Google the power to absorb most of the profit of businesses that have no better option than to advertise on Google. The powerful model of their ad auction is simple: if it’s worth $100 to your organization to get a new customer, and it’s worth $100 to your competitor to get that same new customer, in an auction, you’ll eagerly bid up to $99 for that click.Like a landlord who owns every building in town, Google can’t lose. A successful business in the online ecosystem is one that has a few dollars left over after giving the rest of it to Google or Facebook (or Apple).In the short run, the convenience and reliability of centralized control lull users into a happy compliance. It’s a miracle. It works. What’s the problem?But in the long run, where the long tail has fewer chances to thrive and where the powerful magic of choice disappears, we stagnate.If a centralized government authority decided what news and content we saw, filtered our incoming mail and regularly bankrupted competitors it didn’t like, there’d probably be more of an outcry.The alternative remains the power of peer-to-peer connection. Not the centralized authority of an unknown algorithm, but the roots-based cultural shift that happens when people find the others.When we build something that works better when it’s shared, it’s more likely to be shared.While it’s tempting to seek to be picked by authorities and found by strangers, the more reliable path is to organize and connect those that seek to be part of a tribe, to establish better cultural norms and then persist in making promises and keeping them.Follow me on this journey is more difficult, but it’s also more effective than pleading pick me.  END"}
{"prompt": "Dissolve it ###", "completion":"The best solution to a persistent, apparently non-solvable problem is to make the problem itself obsolete.Go around it.Cease to need it to be solved.Redefine your process or goal so that the problem is no longer permitted to slow you down.An unsolvable roadblock might be better called reality. PS Today’s the altMBA deadline  END"}
{"prompt": "An anecdote and a statistical analysis walk into a bar ###", "completion":"The bar is dark and dingy, well-used, with a bit of danger in the air. The sort of bar that wouldn’t be out of place in a Clint Eastwood movie.The anecdote has been through a lot. There’s the drama with his family, sure, but also the fight he had with his boss today. He needs this job, what with the payments coming due on the house, not to mention his gambling debts…A guy walks up to the anecdote and taps him on the shoulder. A bad move at any time, but today, it’s particularly ill-advised. Putting down his beer, the anecdote turns, in a rage, about to punch the stranger in the face.At the last moment, fist poised to strike out, the anecdote stops. This stranger–he seems somehow familiar. Could it be? Is it his long-lost brother?The valid statistical analysis, the one that’s correct, useful but hard to believe if you haven’t been trained in statistics? He’s in the corner, being ignored.The most effective statisticians are the ones who aren’t afraid to tell a story. Because anecdotes are the way we navigate the world.  END"}
{"prompt": "And your company will pay for it ###", "completion":"You might be surprised at your company’s reimbursement policy for education.Not only can you expense that book that will change the way you do your job, but you can probably take a course on the company’s dime (and perhaps even get some time to work on it).It’s a great deal for the company. You get paid the same, but now you’re smarter, more engaged and more skilled.And it’s a great deal for you. Because one day, when you leave the company, you’re going to take the smarter with you.It’s interesting to consider why so few people take advantage of this extraordinary perk.One reason is that you might not be aware of it (but now you are).A second reason is that learning might remind you of school, and alas, school has created bad associations for some people who were hurt by the command and control mindset of industrial education.The biggest reason I encounter, though, is that people are afraid. Afraid to ask the boss, afraid to assert their desire to learn something and afraid that after they’ve learned it, they won’t be able to live up to the increased expectations.Even as I type this, I hope you can see how silly this is.Relentlessly lowering expectations can work in the short run (hello George Costanza) but it’s hardly a strategy worthy of you and your next 10,000 days at work.Enroll. Engage. Learn. And level up. Ask your boss and give it a try.  END"}
{"prompt": "The first database rule ###", "completion":"If you participate in a database about people or their work, the first rule is simple: it should be as simple to fix an error as it is to make one.If you mischaracterize something, get a digit wrong, sort it wrong, include a typo, inadvertently leave something out, put someone on a list of privilege or denial… every one of these errors is expensive–to you and to the person you’ve misrepresented.You make it worse, far worse, when you insist that the database can’t be changed.It’s bad enough that we’ve reduced people and their work to digits. At least we can be agile in fixing our mistakes.(And yes, I’m talking about the conceptual databases each of us carry around in our heads, not just the digital ones on our desks).  END"}
{"prompt": "Snooze is a trap ###", "completion":"There’s a button on my email program that allows me to postpone an incoming email to a future day.Sort of like a snooze button.The snooze button is a trap. It’s a trap because not only do you have to decide later, but you just expended time and energy to deciding to decide later.Do it once, move on.‘Decide once’ is a magical productivity commitment.There is a certain class of decision that benefits from time. Decisions where more information is in fact useful.But most of the time, we’re busy making decisions that should be made now or not at all. You end up with a ton of decision debt, a pile of unanswered, undecided, unexplored options. And you’re likely to simply walk away.If you open an email, you’ve already made the commitment to respond and move on. Not to push it down the road.In or out, yes or no, on to the next thing.Snooze is not for you.  END"}
{"prompt": "A seat at the table ###", "completion":"Short-term profits are a lousy way to build a sustainable community.There’s always a shortcut, a rule to be bent, a way to make some more money now at the expense of the people around us.The counterbalance to selfish Ayn-Randian greed is cultural belonging.No, the community says, we’re not proud of what you did, and you’re not welcome here.People like us do things like this.It’s the community’s role to establish what things like this are. If you want to hang out with people like us, that’s the price you have to pay. To avoid the short-term and to invest in us instead.The community might be wrong. The path of the person making change happen is often lonely, because change is frightening. But too often, the act of taking a shortcut or finding a short-term profit is confused with the actual long-term hard work of making things better.Fortunately, the community often knows better.[PS today’s the first priority deadline for the next session of the altMBA.]  END"}
{"prompt": "On finding something to say ###", "completion":"The throughline of the last twenty years of tech has been new ways to speak up and connect.We’ve built platforms for email, video, writing, short fiction, daily updates, chat, discussion, classes…But what if you don’t have anything to say?It’s difficult to find a tech solution for this problem.It might be that instead of spending more time looking for a louder platform, you could profit from digging in and doing the hard work of figuring out the change you seek to make. If you’re unable to influence one person in a face to face meeting, all the tech in the world isn’t going to help you change a million people.  END"}
{"prompt": "The power (and risk) of charismatic ideas ###", "completion":"Charisma is a magical power. It enables humans to hotwire connection and build bridges long before the facts on the ground are clear.Charisma creates rock stars, powerful scientists and con men, too.Misused, charisma is often the road to tragedy, because it causes us to suspend disbelief and follow a leader we should have been wary of. On the other hand, charisma in the right hands is the engine that can move us toward better, toward outcomes we might have never achieved if we’d allowed ourselves to be paralyzed by the status quo.Consider for a moment the charismatic idea. An idea, disconnected from the person who might have conceived it, that spreads from person to person. An idea that’s not only sticky, but viral as well.I wrote about ideaviruses twenty years ago, but didn’t talk enough there about the very nature of an idea itself. That some ideas, like some people, are more charismatic than others.When those charismatic ideas contribute to the culture, they create a forward cycle that benefits all of us (I’ll nominate don’t litter as an example.) On the other hand, sticky negative ideas (like false fear about vaccination) persist longer than they should.Our job as marketers is to do the hard work of finding and nurturing charismatic ideas we can be proud of.One place to start is to look at the ideas you’re trying to spread. Consider whether they’re charismatic enough to earn the effort you’re putting into them–and if not, how to replace them with ideas that are.HT to the Distance Plan  END"}
{"prompt": "Rationalizing your project ###", "completion":"I followed the recipe exactly, and it failed.That’s how many reviews of online recipes begin. Then the poster explains that he replaced the sour cream with yogurt (it’s what he had in the fridge), that he replaced the wheat flour with rice flour (it’s gluten-free) and he used the toaster oven instead of a real oven…Once you are deep into a project, it’s yours. It’s underway. You have heart and soul and pride invested in it.In the face of helpful advice, it’s easy to say, sure, that’s what I’m already doing, and then torture your description of the current project to make it sort of, almost, sound like you’re following the suggested new approach.But you’re not. You’re merely wasting time and effort pretending you’re embracing this new way of doing something.What if, just for a week or even a day, you acted as if?What if you re-did your plan, or your perceptions of the world or your approach in a totally new way, the way that respects and embraces the thing you just learned. What if you followed the recipe by following the recipe, simply to learn the technique…After that, after you’ve seen what it can do, then go ahead and see what happens when you re-adopt the cruft that had you looking for a new recipe in the first place.In the age of unlimited access to recipes, the hard part about getting good advice isn’t getting it. It’s following it. And then you might be able to turn the recipe into insight.PS First priority deadline for the August session of the altMBA is this Friday. When you’re ready to level up, we’re ready for you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Anything you want ###", "completion":"The paradox of choice is real, and it gets worse when the choices aren’t even multiple choice.Confronted with the unlimited selection offered by any music streaming service, people choke. They pick an old favorite, a current hit or something banal. The same is true with the nooks and crannies of Amazon or most pieces of software–when people can have anything they want, suddenly what they want isn’t much at all.People are good at a, b or c?. Not as good at pick a card, any card. And terrible at, think of a number between one and a trillion.That’s one reason why writer’s block is far more common than roll-the-dice block.If you’re on the offering side, it’s on you to be smart about the multiple choice options that can unfold new horizons for us. Curation can do better than Shuffle.And if you’re on the choosing side, you can multiply your impact simply by embracing a method that pushes you toward new (and thus uncomfortable) options.  END"}
{"prompt": "The compass and the map ###", "completion":"Wouldn’t it be great if we always had a map? A set of step-by-step instructions on how to get from here to there, wherever we were and wherever we wanted to go…Steve Pressfield relates this magical story:A Gurkha rifleman escaped from a Japanese prison in south Burma and walked six hundred miles alone through the jungles to freedom. The journey took him five months, but he never asked the way and he never lost the way. For one thing he could not speak Burmese and for another he regarded all Burmese as traitors. He used a map and when he reached India he showed it to the Intelligence officers, who wanted to know all about his odyssey. Marked in pencil were all the turns he had taken, all the roads and trail forks he has passed, all the rivers he had crossed. It had served him well, that map. The Intelligence officers did not find it so useful. It was a street map of London.I love this story.Happy endings come from an understanding of the compass, not the presence of a useful map.If you’ve got the wrong map, the right compass will get you home if you know how to use it.Where are you headed?  END"}
{"prompt": "Cognitive load and the convenience problem ###", "completion":"Why do smart people trade away so much money and freedom for just a little convenience?We do it all the time. We take the easy path, the simple shortcut or the long-term bad deal simply because it feels easier.The reason? Thinking is not worth the hassle.Cognitive load overwhelms us. Too many choices. The stakes feel too high. Every day, we make 1,000 times as many different decisions as our cavemen ancestors did. We’re exhausted from all the decisions, and more than that, from the narrative we have about making them poorly.Over the years, marketers have offered us one wonder or another in exchange for just a little cognitive load. And those promises have often been empty. Not worth the hassle.So now, we’ll press the re-order button like a pigeon in a lab. It’s easier.If you want people to stop and think, you’ll need to do two things: Make a very big promise… and then keep it.  END"}
{"prompt": "On winning ###", "completion":"Most people try to win.The real question is, at what?If you focus your sights on winning the local bowling league, the effort can consume you, and you will be aware of your progress and your competition.Or, if you turn the poetry you’re writing into your game, with the goal of winning that next stanza–not in the eyes of a publisher, an editor or a reader, but in your eyes–you can turn that into your thing.If, instead, your goal is to raise more money at a higher valuation in the Valley, then that’s the game you’ve chosen.Or, perhaps, your game is to bend others to your will, to prey on yet another human you see as weaker than you are…Often, we choose games we can’t possibly win. That approach might be working for you, as it lets you off the hook because you won’t have to work out what to do if you win.And sometimes, we choose games where we can’t win unless someone else loses. And these games can often have long-term, toxic after-effects.As you can see, modifying a game you’re already playing because you don’t like how it’s turning out isn’t nearly as useful as picking the right game in the first place.  END"}
{"prompt": "Justifying mediocre work ###", "completion":"The list of reasons is nearly endless.We need all of them to explain the shortcuts, phone-ins and half-work that we’re surrounded by.All of them are pretty good reasons too. We’re in a hurry, the system is unfair, the market demands it, no one will notice, it’s not my job, I was handed a lousy spec, the materials are second-rate, the market won’t pay for quality, competition is cutthroat, my boss is a jerk, it’s actually pretty good, no one appreciates the good stuff anyway…On the other hand, there’s only one way to justify work that’s better than it needs to be: Because you cared enough.  END"}
{"prompt": "The timing of side effects ###", "completion":"Loosen the constraints on a system and the system will almost always do better in the short run.That’s if we define betteras the visible outputs of what the system does. And short run as, the stuff that happens before we have to live with the side effects.So… if you remove environmental regulation from a factory, it will probably make more stuff faster. For awhile. But then the river is sludge and the workers are dead, so in the long run, not so much.If you stop paying taxes, you’ll have more money today. But the civilization you depend on to enjoy that money will soon disappear.If you stop taking medicine because you don’t like the stomach ache it gives you, you’ll definitely have a better day today. Until you stop having a better day, because of the illness that comes back because you stopped taking your medicine.All side effects are more simply called effects. And getting clear about the time frame we live in is the first step to leaving things better than we found them.  END"}
{"prompt": "Accountability vs. responsibility ###", "completion":"Accountability is done to you. It’s done by the industrial system, by those that want to create blame.Responsibility is done by you. It’s voluntary. You can take as much of it as you want.  END"}
{"prompt": "Organized crime ###", "completion":"Best I can tell, most of the folks in the organized crime industry care a lot more about the ‘organized’ part than they do the ‘crime.’Organized as in: who’s up and who’s down. Who gets to decide. Who’s in charge and who has power.The crime is simply a shortcut.The same is true for people on Wall Street. The money is simply a means to keep score of the organized part.When people are willing to sacrifice their principles to take shortcuts, when they’re willing to bully or cheat or lie to get more status, we are understandably disdainful. Because the boundaries matter. Because we can see that once someone is willing to cheat a little to win, they’re probably willing to cheat a lot.  END"}
{"prompt": "On finishing well ###", "completion":"If you start a book, you will do better if you have a plan for finishing your book.If you take the time and spend the money to go to college, it’s worth considering graduating as well.Aretha Franklin died without a clearly stated will. As a result, her heirs will waste time, money and frustration, because Franklin was both naive (a will doesn’t make it more likely that you will die) and selfish.If you’re born, it pays to plan on dying.Every year, millions of people needlessly suffer in old age because they didn’t spend twenty minutes on a health care proxy.If you’re going to take a job, everyone will benefit if you think about how you’re going to leave that job.And if you start a company, you should realize that you’re probably going to either sell it or fold it one day, and neither has to be a catastrophe or a failure.Beginning is magical. So is finishing. We can embrace both.  END"}
{"prompt": "Defective apologies ###", "completion":"Civilization depends on the apology. When humans interact and something goes wrong, the apology builds a bridge that enables us to move forward.But apologies are failing more often. Two reasons: First, organizations aren’t humans, and organizations often seek to avoid or industrialize the human work that civilization needs. And secondly, the apology is a complex organism, one with many structures and purposes, and our culture models (or fails to model) how it’s supposed to be done.Consider that we can say, I’m sorry at a funeral even if we didn’t murder the deceased, but we also say, I’m sorry when we bump into someone in a crowded train station and I’m sorry when we get caught shoplifting. Three different situations, with fundamentally different amounts of complicity, blame or guilt.When someone accidentally bumps into us, we don’t expect compensation or punishment, but we very much want to be acknowledged. On the other hand, acknowledgment is insufficient when someone sought to profit from our pain.We can start by asking, what is this apology for? What does the person need from us? To be seenCompensationPunishment for the transgressorStopping the damage The first category is the one that most demands humanity, and it’s also the most common. A form letter from a company does not make us feel seen. Neither does an automated text from an airline when a plane is late. One reason that malpractice victims sue is that surgeons sometimes have trouble with a genuine apology. This non-human behavior is getting worse and is being celebrated in parts of our culture (mistaking it for strength), which leads to a demand for the other three.Compensation is the ancient tradition of seeking to make a victim whole. Unless the injury is solely financial, financial compensation is insufficient, but that doesn’t mean we haven’t tried to build systems that use money to atone for ills.Punishment is different from compensation. Punishment allows the victim to feel seen, because he or she is now aware that the transgressor feels some pain as well. (Punishment is unsatisfying to the victim if he or she is unaware of it). Punishment is economically suspect, though, because other than the second-order feeling of being seen, the punishment doesn’t directly help the person who was injured. It also can spiral forward, leading to ever more damage.And finally, stopping the damage, which often co-exists with the other three needs. This is the affirmative act of making sure it doesn’t happen again. This is correcting the website so that the next person who reads it won’t see the same error. This is fixing the railing so the next visitor won’t trip and fall. This is the organization investing time and energy to actually improve its systems.Compounding these totally different sorts of apologies is the very industrial idea of winning. Victims have been sold that it’s not enough that your compensation is merely helpful, but it has to be the most. That you won the biggest judgment in history. That the transgressor isn’t simply going to jail, but is going to jail forever, far away, in solitary confinement. We’ve all ended up in a place where one of the ways to feel seen is to also feel like you came in first place compared to others.There’s an old cartoon–an irate customer is standing at the complaints desk of a store, clearly not mollified by the clerk. She then asks, exasperated, well, what if we shut down the store, burn it to the ground and run the owner out of town… will that be enough?The challenge that organizations have is that they haven’t trained, rewarded or permitted their frontline employees to exert emotional labor to create human connection when it’s most needed.The traveler goes straight from, my flight is overbooked, to I want a million frequent flyer miles and a first class ticket on the next flight.The patient goes from, the scar on my leg isn’t healing, to I’m going to sue you.And the most common unseen situation is the customer who walks away, forever, because you have a broken system and you’re not hearing from your people about how to fix it.Organizations that refuse to see the pain they’re causing because they’re afraid of being held responsible have missed the point. You’re already being held responsible. The question is what to do about it? You can stonewall, bureaucratize and delay, and hope that the system will suffice…The alternative is to choose to contribute to connection by actually apologizing. Apologizing not to make the person go away, but because they have feelings, and you can do something for them. Apologizing with time and direct contact, and following it up by actually changing the defective systems that caused the problem.Yikes, I’m sorry you missed your flight–I really wish that hadn’t happened. The next flight is in an hour, but that’s probably going to ruin your entire trip. Are you headed on vacation?You’re right, you booked a front-facing seat, but you got one that’s facing backward–and I hear you about getting motion sickness, my sister does too… I know that Amtrak has been having trouble with our systems, but I have the hotline number of the head of ops–I’m going to call and let them know.Yeah, I shouldn’t have written that review. I was in a bad mood when I wrote it. I apologize. But, to set the record straight, I’m going to delete that review and write a new one, just as loud, but this time telling people about how much you care.Consider that an effective apology has a few elements to it:1. You know what sort of apology you’re offering.2. You share your story with the aggrieved as well as hearing their story, thus becoming human, and then taking the time to help them feel seen by you.3. You engage with the person who was harmed and find out, beyond being seen, what would help them move forward, noting that it’s impossible to make complete amends.[It’s worth noting that these are not the same steps you’d take if you’re simply hoping the person will shut up and go away, without you seeing them. That’s not going to happen, and acting as if it will, will only make your problem worse.]Empathy –> Connection –> Trust  END"}
{"prompt": "The mob fears the truth ###", "completion":"It’s not that they don’t know the truth (they might, if they stopped to think about it.)It’s not that they want to know the truth, either. Information is available if they looked for it.No, they fear the truth.And being part of a mob is a good way to hide from that fear.  END"}
{"prompt": "Blockbusters vs. building blocks ###", "completion":"It’s the blockbusters that get all the hype. The home runs, the viral videos, the hits.It’s the sudden shifts, the ideas that change everything, the fell swoops.Fell swoops seem like they’re worth chasing, but a hit isn’t a strategy, it’s an event. Nice work if you can get it, but hard to plan on or build on.It takes patience to avoid planning on swoops. It’s more productive to live in a house that’s built out of bricks, one at a time, day by day.Here’s to a swoop-free journey.  END"}
{"prompt": "Any metric you can buy your way out of… ###", "completion":"Is probably not a useful metric to measure yourself by.If it’s important and you can spend money to fix it, by all means, go do that.But the helpful metrics are the ones where cash isn’t the solution.  END"}
{"prompt": "Leave stones unturned ###", "completion":"If it’s the wrong stone, walk away.Infinity is a trap.The frenzied search for more is a distraction and a place to hide, all in one.Pick the right stones and cherish them as you turn them over.That’s enough.  END"}
{"prompt": "Smashing the piggybank ###", "completion":"You can only break it open once.Organizations (and political candidates) that forget this and treat their biggest supporters like bottomless ATMs learn the piggybank rule at great cost.Every interaction you have with a customer either strengthens your relationship (because it’s mutually beneficial) or weakens it. Weaken it enough time and you break it.The fact that you ended up with a few bucks in the meantime is immaterial compared to the long term damage of breaking the relationship because you’re in a hurry.  END"}
{"prompt": "The solo marathon ###", "completion":"The usual marathons, the popular ones, are done in a group.They have a start time.A finish line.A way to qualify.A route.A crowd.And a date announced a year in advance.Mostly, they have excitement, energy and peer pressure.The other kind of marathon is one that anyone can run, any day of the year. Put on your sneakers, run out the door and come back 26 miles later. These are rare.It’s worth noting that much of what we do in creating a project, launching a business or developing a career is a lot closer to the second kind of marathon.No wonder it’s so difficult.  END"}
{"prompt": "Constraints and measurement ###", "completion":"These are the two axes of professional design and engineering.Did you produce within the constraints?Did you deliver measurable results?That’s it.Good design doesn’t exceed the available resources and produces measurable change against the agreed upon objectives.Great design is better than good design because it uses fewer resources and/or creates even better results.If you need to build a bridge, yes, of course you could build one out of unobtainium and even an amateur could build one that can’t carry truck traffic, but a professional engineer eagerly accepts the constraints she signed up for and insists on measuring just how much wear and tear the bridge can actually handle.Direct marketing, curriculum design, product testing, movie-making–they all live within the axes of constraints and performance.They just opened the long-awaited Terminal B at LaGuardia Airport, previously one of the worst major airports in the world. And while it’s shiny, the failures of engineering and design are everywhere. At 6 am, the line for the ladies room is 20 people long. The space constraints can’t be eased (constraints enable architecture) but the throughput would have been easy to measure at the blueprint stage. This part of the billion-dollar facility had just one job, and it failed.The same is true for the design of the simple coffee stand. It doesn’t require a breakthrough in retail engineering to create an espresso bar that can serve grumpy pre-caffeinated travelers with speed and grace. But despite the hard work of the tradespeople who followed the plans, the plans themselves were defective. The outcome of their poor design decisions is obvious to anyone looking at the line of 30 people.Forward motion happens when we see the best practices of our craft and exceed them. The privilege of design and engineering comes with the responsibility to be measured, and to redo our work when it doesn’t measure up.Give me constraints and Measure my performance are rarely heard, except when talented and passionate designers go to work.  END"}
{"prompt": "The tyranny of small debts, compounded ###", "completion":"The simple but hard to follow rule is this: Only borrow money to buy things that go up in value.In the old days, that meant a house and a college education, because you’d probably earn enough from either to pay back the debt, with interest. Today, housing is unpredictable and many forms of student debt are crushing (and the yield on the most expensive forms of education isn’t as high as it might be).You can justify borrowing money to buy a car if the car enables you to make enough money to pay the debt back… But medallion cab owners in New York have recently learned that there are few sure things.The deal with credit card debt, though is simply terrible. The credit card companies pay 2% on their interest-bearing accounts, but charge around NINE times that on the debt that some people carry–that’s a huge gap. It’s a lousy deal you should avoid if you possibly can, regardless of how unfair the economy is.Lately, there’s been a lot of handwringing about the long-term impact of a daily treat like a cup of coffee. The Times got this completely wrong yesterday, pushing people deeper into a trap that they should run away from. And the Washington Post points out that the number of people getting a loan for their wedding is skyrocketing. This is a problem. Here’s a simple way to see why: You can make a copy of the spreadsheet I built (hit MAKE A COPY or download) and then play with the numbers yourself.The sad news is that the best you can do within an industrial system that makes it harder and harder to catch up through effort is to begin by avoiding debt. It turns out that paying interest on interest is a long-term trap.The real win is to borrow money to embrace high-yield education, and then borrow money if you need it to build an asset, a business that creates value for you and the people you serve.The system is not fair, and it’s rigged against those that get compounded.Don’t get compounded if you can avoid it.  END"}
{"prompt": "yesyesyesyesyesyesyesyes ###", "completion":"That’s exciting to hear.Until you realize that if you switch just one letter around, it spellseyes eyes eyes…As soon as you’re applauded, you have eyes on you.Eyes that belong to humans, to critics, to people hoping for the best. Mostly, to people who expect you to keep your promises.That’s part of the deal of ‘yes.’  END"}
{"prompt": "Fear of kohlrabi ###", "completion":"What do you do when you face an alien looking vegetable? It’s all over the farmer’s market, it’s cheap and plentiful and you’ve never had it before.Most people walk right on by. What’s the cost of being wrong, though?The economic cost is tiny. Make a mistake with a kohlrabi and you’re out about a dollar–less than it cost you to drive to work.But the emotional cost, depending on how you’ve trained yourself, could be high indeed.What will my family think of me if they don’t like it?How will I deal with my ignorance of what to do with it? Is it too painful/risky/time-consuming to learn?What if I do it wrong? Will it make me feel stupid?What will eating an unfamiliar food remind me of?The kohlrabi metaphor runs deep. It’s about our perception of new experiences, and how we deal with, this might not work.Most of all, kohlrabi is a choice.  END"}
{"prompt": "Eleven votes ###", "completion":"Every year, the Baseball Writers of America vote for induction into the Baseball Hall of Fame.Eleven of them voted NO when Babe Ruth came up for the first time.If Babe Ruth gets eleven ‘no’ votes, why are we so worried about the noisy critic in the corner?  END"}
{"prompt": "That’s just semantics ###", "completion":"Just?The meaning of the word is the reason we used the word.If we don’t agree about the meaning of the word, we haven’t communicated.Instead of, that’s just semantics, it seems more productive to say, I’m confident we have a semantics problem.Because that’s all of it.The way we process words changes the way we act. The story we tell ourselves has an emotional foundation, but those emotions are triggered by the words we use.Not just.Especially.[PS today’s the final due date for applications for the August altMBA. Hope to see you there.]  END"}
{"prompt": "The problem with sarcasm ###", "completion":"Well, that was super helpful.Was it? Or are you trying to be sarcastic?Because if it was helpful, you could simply write, thank you, that was helpful.On the other hand, if you’re trying to express disappointment or displeasure, you could write, I’m disappointed that you weren’t able to contribute more here. We were really looking forward to your input.The problem with sarcasm is that the level of displeasure is hidden. You might come across as snarky when you don’t mean to, or, the snarkiness you were sending might not land.My new rule of thumb is to always assume goodwill and ignore any perceived sarcasm. Call it a Type II sarcasm-detection error.It’s hard to imagine a situation where sarcasm is the most effective way to make your point.  END"}
{"prompt": "The perfect mustard ###", "completion":"If you ask for mustard at a French bistro, you’ll get a strong Dijon, handmade in a little village three hundred kilometres away.If you ask for mustard at a game at Fenway, apparently you’ll get Gulden’s.Within a rounding error, all mustard costs the same. It’s not about the price. It’s about coherence with the story. When a Marriott brings you the little sealed bottle of fake dijon from Heinz, they’re not offering you mustard, they’re sending a signal about what they think is fancy.And at the ball game, the yellow mustard in a giant pump tells a story as well.Is one better than the other? It’s a matter of taste and context. Of course, I have a favorite mustard and a narrative about what’s appropriate in a given setting, and so does just about everyone else I know. But favorite is different than ‘right’. There’s no absolute scale. How can a mustard be yuppie? Pretentious? Down to earth? It’s simply a condiment.And yes, there’s a mustard analogy in everything you do. In how you shake hands, in the typeface you use in your presentation (and whether you call it a ‘font’), in the volume you choose for your voice when in conversation.Being in sync is a choice.  END"}
{"prompt": "Pivoting the education matrix ###", "completion":"For the longest time, school has been organized around subjects. Fifth graders go to math class and then English class and then geography.Mostly, those classes don’t teach what they say theyteach. Sure, there are some facts, but mostly it’s the methods of instruction that are on offer. School usually has a different flavor than learning.It turns out, the skills we need to use in life (and in school) aren’t subject specific. But we use those subjects to teach the skills we actually end up using. Everyone knows that the typical person doesn’t need binomials, but the argument is that problem-solving, etc, are totally worth learning and so we pretend to teach the subject when apparently, we’re teaching the skill.Perhaps, instead of organizing school around data acquisition and regurgitation, we could identify what the skills are and separate them out, teaching domain knowledge in conjunction with the skill, not the other way around.It turns out that the typical school spends most of its time on just one of those skills (obedience through comportment and regurgitation).What would happen if we taught each skill separately?ObedienceManagementLeadership/cooperationProblem-solvingMindfulnessCreativityAnalysisIndeed, you are required to do all seven of these things in math class, but in what proportion? Is a kid who has trouble with obedience bad at math, or is it that the obedience part of a class got in the way of the analysis or problem-solving part of the class instead?It’s entirely possible for a kid to make it through 16 years of organized schooling with a solid B average and never do much more than do well on just one thing–remembering what’s on the test. We’ve failed when we’ve turned out someone with just one of the 7 skills.What happens if we are clear what we’re doing and why? Because obedience isn’t the point of math or science, but sometimes it’s taught that way.And then, when obedience session is over, we can find other ways to approach the work at hand, developing the other essential skills.A 45 minute Creativity class that uses algebra is going to feel very different from a Leadershipclass covering the same material.Some kids spend a decade in the school sports system and learn leadership and management and creativity and analysis. And some learn nothing but how to follow the coach’s instructions and sit on the bench. This has nothing to do with sports (or geography or biology) and everything to do with what we decide we’re teaching in any given moment.Is there a cognitive difference between solving a chemistry problem and solving a crossword puzzle? Not really. Getting good at solving–putting on your solving hat and finding the guts to use it–is a skill that gets buried under the avalanche that we call obedience.How’d you do in Creativity today, son? or perhaps, Wow, you got an A in Analysis–that’s going to open a lot of doors for you…Bureaucracies over-index for obedience. They do that out of self-preservation, and because it’s the easiest thing to sell to clients, funders and parents (and to measure). But since we’re currently overdoing that one (they do it far more in other countries, though), we end up getting confused about what it means to learn a subject area in a useful way and we definitely under-develop people on the other six skills.My guess is that most parents and educators are afraid to even discuss the topic. More here.  END"}
{"prompt": "People don’t change ###", "completion":"(Unless they want to)Humans are unique in their ability to willingly change. We can change our attitude, our appearance and our skillset.But only when we want to.The hard part, then, isn’t the changing it.It’s the wanting it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Sneaky surveys (and push polls) ###", "completion":"First thing: All open access online surveys are essentially inaccurate, because the group that takes the time to answer the survey is usually different from the general public.Second thing: Don’t confuse a survey with a census. A survey asks a randomized but representative group some questions and then seeks to extend the answers to the entire group as a whole. A census seeks to ask everyone in the group, so that no generalization is required.In general, you don’t need a census. What you need is a correctly representational group, which can be dramatically smaller than the entire population. The huge mistake is believing that you need to survey more and more people. You don’t. And your work to reach more people actually makes your survey less accurate not more (see the first thing). And yes, this is true even if you’re a solo creator wondering if your novel is any good.In the age of good stats, the best use of a census is to establish a 1:1 relationship between what someone feels and who that person is. Asking every single person at a restaurant what they want for dinner is a census, a useful one, because you can then serve each person exactly what they want for dinner.Third: You might believe the survey someone just emailed you to fill out is anonymous. It probably isn’t. Check out this explanation from Survey Monkey. It turns out that tracking by IP and even email address/name is a built-in feature. If you get a survey link by email or even as you browse a site, it’s a safe guess to imagine that your answers are tied in some way to your other interactions with the organization that posted the survey. Respondent beware.And fourth: Asking someone a question can change the way they feel. Done crudely, this is called a push poll (Did you know that Bob was indicted last year?) but even asking someone a thoughtful question about their satisfaction can increase it.Okay, two more things:At the conclusion of the endless surveys when they ask you if you have anything else to add, don’t bother. It’s not like the CEO is busy reading your comments.The single best way to figure out how people feel isn’t to ask them with some focus-group survey. It’s to watch what they do when given the choice. This or that? is a great way to get to the truth of our preferences.  END"}
{"prompt": "Too big to care ###", "completion":"The marketing math is compelling. It’s obvious that the most highly-leveraged moment in every brand’s relationship with a customer is the moment when something goes wrong.In that moment, when a promise was broken, the customer sees the true nature of the brand. We make up stories about the brands in our lives, but we believe that when the promise is broken we’re about to see the truth of that story.As brands get bigger (and bigger might be as small as an organization with just two people in it), policies kick in. Policies and budgets and bureaucracy.The brand has become too big to care. I mean, it might be big enough to pretend to care. To have policies that appear to set things right. But they don’t really care.The only way to really care is to have human beings who care (and to give them the authority and resources to demonstrate that.)Once you’ve got that, it’s pretty easy to show that you do.  END"}
{"prompt": "Surrendering curation and promotion ###", "completion":"Facebook, Linkedin, Google, Appleand Amazon have very little ability to promote a specific idea or creator.That sounds crazy, but culturally and technically, it’s true.In 1995, Oprah got to put just one person as the lead in an episode of her show. That choice was a commitment and a signal. It said to her viewers, there were many people who could have been on the show today, but I chose this person.In 2000, Random House got to pick one book to be their big business title for November. Just one. Their curation sent a message to bookstores, who stocked more copies as a result.They were curators and their curation led to promotion and attention. There was a cost to picking junk, and a benefit to earning trust.The tech giants have surrendered that ability, with the costs and benefits that come with it. They end up disrespecting creations and their creators.It doesn’t matter if you know someone at Google or if Amazon promises that they’re going to heavily promote your new Kindle book. The people who work at these companies don’t have a dial to turn. Amazon is good at selling everything, but they’re terrible at selling a thing.Apple gets some zing for a recommended podcast now and then, or for a heavily promoted record, but the same rule is generally true with them–98% of all their content is driven by the algorithm, not a human with something at stake. They don’t care which record you pay for, as long as you pay for something.The platforms are built on the idea that the audience plus the algorithm do all the deciding. No curation, no real promotion, simply the system, grinding away.This inevitably leads to pandering, a race to the bottom.Netflix is an exception because they have so much at stake in the investment of their own products that they insist on curating and promoting, bending the algorithm in the direction they wish it to go.When a site tries to do both (like Buzzfeed), it’s a perilous journey. The metrics and the algorithm will swallow up the best intent of taste and culture making.  END"}
{"prompt": "Comparing % and mass ###", "completion":"Direct marketers don’t care how many people they reach.They care what percentage take action.Brand marketers have trouble measuring action, so all they have to work with is reach.If you can measure, stop worrying about big numbers when it comes to reach. Run away from the Super Bowl or a billboard on the main highway.Small audiences are your friend, because small audiences are specific, and specific increases your percentage.  END"}
{"prompt": "Three wishes ###", "completion":"When you’re feeling stuck with your project, grab three index cards.On each card, write down an element of the project that, if you invested time and money, would change for the better.If those three things happened, if those three elements improved, what would happen to your project?Okay, now that you’ve got all three… what are you going to do about it?  END"}
{"prompt": "Where will the media take us next? ###", "completion":"Since the first story was carved on a rock, media pundits have explained that they have simply given people what they want, reporting the best they can on what’s happening.Cause (the culture, human activity, people’s desires) leads to effect (front page news).In fact, it’s becoming ever more clear that the attention-seeking, profit-driven media industrial complex drives our culture even more than it reports on it.Thoughtful people regularly bemoan our loss of civility, the rise of trolling and bullying and most of all, divisive behavior designed to rip people apart instead of moving us productively forward.And at the very same time, reality TV gets ever better ratings. So much so that the news has become the longest-running, cheapest to produce and most corrosive TV show in history. Increase that exponentially by adding in the peer-to-peer reality show that is social media, and you can see what’s happening.Imagine two classrooms, each filled with second graders.In the first classroom, the teacher shines a spotlight on the bullies, the troublemakers and the fighters, going so far as to arrange all the chairs so that the students are watching them and cheering them on all day.In the second classroom, the teacher establishes standards, acts as a damper on selfish outliers and celebrates the generous and productive kids in the classroom…How will the classrooms diverge? Which one would you rather have your child enrolled in?We’re not in elementary school anymore, and the media isn’t our teacher or our nanny. But the attention we pay to the electronic channels we click on consumes more of our day than we ever spent with Miss Binder in second grade. And that attention is corrosive. To us and to those around us.The producers of reality TV know this. And they seek out more of it. When they can’t find it easily, they search harder. Because that’s their job.It’s their job to amp up the reality show that is our culture.But it’s not our job to buy into it. More than anything, profit-driven media needs our active participation in order to pay their bills.It’s an asymmetrical game, with tons of behavioral research working against each of us–the uncoordinated but disaffected masses. Perhaps we can find the resolve to seek out the others, to connect and to organize in a direction that actually works.The first step is to stop taking the bait. The second step is to say, follow me.  END"}
{"prompt": "Everyone else, also ###", "completion":"Everyone else also thinks it’s about them.Everyone else is in a hurry.Everyone else is afraid.Everyone else wonders if they’re being left behind.Everyone else is tired.Everyone else isn’t sure, either.The good news is that everyone else also has unused potential and the ability to make an impact.  END"}
{"prompt": "Online marketing vs. marketing online ###", "completion":"Online marketing has become a messy mix of direct marketing, seo, tricks, tips, code and guesswork. It’s an always-moving target and it’s mostly focused on tactics, not strategy, because tactics are easy to measure.Marketing online, on the other hand, is what happens when the work to serve our audience arrives in an electronic form. Marketing online is simply marketing–the act of making things better by making things–aided by a mouse and a keyboard.Careful not to get stuck focusing on the wrong one. You need both, but one drives the other.  END"}
{"prompt": "Politics vs. governance ###", "completion":"It’s just politics.No one ever says, it’s just governance.Politics is organized sparring about power, without much regard for efficacy or right or wrong.Governance is the serious business of taking responsibility for leadership.Over the last twenty years, the mass media has shifted, from here’s the news, to, hey, it’s just media. As a result, a system has been built in which situations, emergencies and bad news have been packaged and promoted twenty-four hours a day.In the face of that maelstrom of noise, it’s easy to come to the conclusion that the world is more dangerous and unstable than it has ever been.When we have a chance to speak up for governance, we can strike a blow against politics.Because even though it doesn’t make compelling TV, the long-term challenges ahead of us aren’t going to respond to politics.Dedication, resilience and concerted effort have saved us before and they can save us again. Except once again, it’s on us to speak up and do something about it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Lottery logic ###", "completion":"Someone has to win the lottery, it might as well be you.Buying a lottery ticket is economically irrational and emotionally rewarding for some. Because while someone has to win, it’s probably not going to be you.There are examples of lottery logic in our daily work as well. It’s clear that someone is going to be the next Taylor Swift, the next George Clooney or the next Will Smith. But it’s probably not going to be you. Someone is going to raise a $40 million seed round, or get picked to be the next big thing. But it’s probably not going to be you.It’s tempting to decide to follow the path that leads to mass-market stardom, the top of the charts, the fame and fortune that comes to the person who wins a media lottery. It’s tempting to build a mass-market podcast or a general-audience news site. It’s tempting to be the sort of vanilla-but-attractive actor who can play just about any role…But it’s far more productive to focus on stepwise progress for the smallest viable audience instead. It might not make headlines, but it’s far more likely to work and more rewarding in the long run.  END"}
{"prompt": "Arithmetic true ###", "completion":"Arithmetic is true. It’s true because1. we accept the terms for what they mean2. it’s timeless, past and present and future are the same3. it’s testableIn every fourth-grade classroom, the statement, 9 is bigger than 7 is clearly true. We can count out nine marbles. We have a mutualunderstanding of what bigger means in this context. From this shared understanding of the axioms and vocabulary, we can build useful and complex outcomes.On the other hand, Cheryl is a better candidate than Tracy might be true for some people, but it presents all sorts of trouble if we look at it through the same lens of truth as a term we learned in arithmetic. We know who Cheryl is and we know who Tracy is, but it’s not clear what better means in this case. Are we describing who will win an election in two weeks? That’s awfully hard to test in advance.And ‘words as building blocks of truth’ gets even more complicated when the ideas intersect with both science and culture. The statement, The theory of evolution is our best explanation for how we all got here, is demonstrably true in the realm of science, but for people with a certain worldview who value cultural alignment more than verifiable and testable evidence, this statement isn’t true at all.The words matter. It matters whether we’re talking about ‘arithmetic true’ or simply an accurate description of what works for part of our culture.  END"}
{"prompt": "Confusing effort, preparation and performance with the outcome ###", "completion":"How’d you perform on the sales call?It was great.How do you know?They bought. How did you play?Super.How do you know?We won. Actually, that’s selling your potential short.Even if the chip shot went in the hole, it doesn’t mean you hit the ball properly.It might simply have been a positive variance. Next time, it could easily bounce the other way.In order to improve our performance, we need to model our preparation, our effort and our form against a standard, not base it on the outcome. Because outcomes aren’t always guaranteed by our work.Just because you won doesn’t mean you did a good job (and vice versa).  END"}
{"prompt": "The shunning ###", "completion":"Shun the people who have transgressed against cultural norms.And shun the people who have stood with those people.Shun the people who have a different solution to an urgent problem.Shun the people who didn’t invite you.Shun the people who aren’t shunning the right people.Shun those who have slighted you.And shun those who didn’t realize that they should be shunning those that you’re shunning.Not much left.Shunning is a powerful tool, it is a sanction that society uses to maintain norms. But it’s an absolute tool, a final resort.It’s possible to connect with people without endorsing their worst actions. In fact, the best way to undo negative actions may be to engage with people to persuade them that there’s a different way forward.  END"}
{"prompt": "Where’s the freakout line? ###", "completion":"Giving a talk to three people is easy. No sweat. Giving it to 100 costs you a night’s sleep.Sending an email to six colleagues is normal. Sending a note to a list of 400 is cause for concern.Where, exactly, is the line?Is an audience of 21 different from 24?If you spend some time looking for the line, perhaps you’ll discover that there’s rarely a reason to freak out. It’s just one more than the number you’re fine with, after all.  END"}
{"prompt": "Reckless, fearless and generous ###", "completion":"I did a live QA and rant today at 10 am NY time. Topic: there’s a difference between reckless, fearless and generous, and once you see it, it’ll help you move forward. You can watch (and chime in) live, or see it once it’s archived (the insta version is only available for 24 hours).You can follow me on Instagram (Check it out… Taylor and the team are working with me to do some innovative things in this medium) and we’ll be simulcasting on Facebook as well.Also, as long as we’re talking about other places, don’t forget to check out my podcast Akimbo, now in its fifth season. Here are some examples of favorite episodes.Thanks for tuning in, wherever and however.  END"}
{"prompt": "What does it feel like when you say later? ###", "completion":"What does it sound like when you put something off?All of us have a catalog of voices in our head. We’ve got the one for feeling behind, the one for not feeling good enough, the one we use when we’re trying to avoid a sore spot.There are good reasons to decide to wait until later.Waiting for later keeps our options open.Waiting for later helps us avoid the short-term hustle.Waiting for later feels safer.Too often, waiting for later also keeps us from leaping, from leading and from making a difference. It keeps us from moving on, moving forward.The feeling of later doesn’t go away. it actually gets harder and harder to leap as the time goes by.It’s easy to turn waiting for later into a habit. It’s a great way to hide from the work we truly care about, especially if it’s uncomfortable.Today’s the last day of 2019 to apply for the altMBA.It’s possible that you’ve heard about it, read the case studies, seen the impact it’s made on the thousands of people who have completed it, but perhaps you decided to wait until later.Today is later.Today’s the last day to apply at our current tuition. Our upcoming session is this October, and after that, we won’t be back until 2020.Now is usually better than later.  END"}
{"prompt": "Don’t buy cheap chocolate ###", "completion":"Halloween is a month away. And over the next few weeks, a lot of cheap chocolate is going to get bought in preparation for the ringing doorbell.Cheap chocolate is made from beans picked by poor kids in dangerous conditions.And cheap chocolate is made from beans that don’t even taste that good, but come from more hardy trees, so it’s more reliable to grow.Some of the poorest people in the world raise cacao beans, and the market is driven by the low bidders. The low bidders are the folks who have no room for flexibility in their supply chain because the end product they sell is so price sensitive. For forty years, it’s been a race to the bottom, one that has led to plenty of ignored pain.On the other hand, expensive chocolate turns the ratchet in the other direction. The folks who make the bars, particularly those who do direct trade, keep paying higher and higher wages. They keep children out of the system. And they encourage their growers to use the tastier artisanal Criollo and Trinitario varieties, keeping them from extinction.The race to the top often creates more winners than losers. That’s because instead of seeking to maximize financial returns at the expense of everyone in the system, they’re focused on something else.PS Today’s a fine day to sign up for The Marketing Seminar. Even if you don’t market chocolate, but especially if you do.  END"}
{"prompt": "Learnable ###", "completion":"It’s worth remembering that if someone knows how to do something, that means, with sufficient effort, you could probably learn it too.You might not be willing to put in the time and effort, but it’s learnable.I went to art school. That means that everything I can do with a pen you can learn to do as well. Alex Peck.  END"}
{"prompt": "Ways to grow ###", "completion":"A checklist to get you started—you can either do the same thing or a different thing…More of the samePersistGet the word outDoing something different  Change an element of what you doRaise your pricesLower your pricesMake it betterTell a different storyServe a different customerEnter a new segmentChange the downstream effects of your workEarn trustMake bigger promisesOrganizeGet better clientsDo work that matters to someone  END"}
{"prompt": "The race to the bottom ###", "completion":"When anyone has the ability to announce breaking news, urgent updates, RIGHT NOW, steal attention and emergencies, then sooner or later, many will do just that.Attention is scarce, scarcer than ever, and we’ve given everyone a machine that can steal attention, and a keyboard that can be used to steal even more.The race for cheap, unearned attention is a race that can’t be won. As soon as someone gains the lead, someone else will lower their standards and take a shortcut to get even more. The players have already surrendered their self-esteem, so it’s simply an escalating hijack of trust. And so we have dark patterns, once-respected media outlets with shameless headlines and an entire industry based on clickbait, come-ons and trickery.It’s pretty clear that there’s an alternative. A chance to work toward the top instead. To deliver anticipated, personal and relevant messages to people who want to get them. The opportunity to create remarkable products and services for a focused audience, stuff so good that people want to talk about it.This is marketing. To choose to race to the top and then to do it well.  END"}
{"prompt": "A ratchet with leverage ###", "completion":"That’s something worth building.Electricity is a ratchet with leverage. Once communities have access to a little electricity, a solar lantern, say, they quickly discover that they want/need more electricity. The productivity increases create more income which gives them more money to buy more electricity. The leverage that this productivity and income give them (combined with the actual power at their disposal) creates a one-way route toward the future.The same thinking applies to a personal career.The first speech you’ll give will be difficult. The tenth one will be easier. Each speech, well-delivered, creates more demand for more speeches. Each speech given gives you more leverage to give better speeches. Better speeches create more demand…This is the opposite of shoplifting. Shoplifting isn’t a ratchet. The system actually pushes back harder and harder the more you do it. And it has no leverage.Some businesses work at scale because they’re ratchets (they cause motion in one direction) and they’re able to reinvest from that ratchet to create more leverage. Amazon is certainly the most shining example of this simple process.But it can also work for the local university. A little learning creates demand for more learning. Useful degrees as a label for effort offer leverage to those that receive them, and the demand for more learning and more leverage gives the university resources to expand and do it even more.When in doubt, look for the ratchet and look for leverage.PS A new episode of my podcast Akimbo is out this week. I think it’s an episode worth checking out.  END"}
{"prompt": "We don’t call portraits people ###", "completion":"But in fact, just about everything is a portrait.It’s our temporary understanding of the world as it is, not an actual experience of it.We see things through our filters, match them to our expectations and live out our story of what we expect and why. We build a narrative around every interaction we have, and that narrative is rarely as accurate as we’d like to admit.It gets easier to work our way through a situation if we preface our retelling with, the way I experienced what she said…HT to Paul.  END"}
{"prompt": "You might have a marketing problem ###", "completion":"Democracy is a marketing problem.Health is a marketing problem.Climate change is a marketing problem.Growing your organization, spreading the word, doing work you’re proud of–these aren’t engineering problems or economics problems. They’re marketing problems.That’s because humans make choices. If we live in a culture where people are free to choose, we’ve offered control over our future to others.When humans make choices–that’s marketing. Marketing is the difficult work of telling a story that resonates, of bringing a consistent set of promises to people who want to hear them.If you want to change things, it helps to understand how humans make choices. And if you’ve got a change in mind, I hope you’ll spend the time and effort it takes to get better at bringing your story to the people who need to hear it.I’m thrilled that we’re launching the eighth edition of The Marketing Seminar today. My bestselling book This is Marketing (more than 250,000 copies sold worldwide in less than a year) is based on this workshop. Every time we run the seminar, it gets better and our participants find what they’re looking for. If you want to join the 8,000 people who have found a path forward, today’s the best day. Look for the purple circle to find a discount.Marketing isn’t about shortcuts, hustle or deception. Marketing is the art (and the science) of serving the people you seek to serve, to do better work by finding and satisfying needs. Marketing is the practice of making things better by making better things.Click here to find out more.  END"}
{"prompt": "The rip saw ###", "completion":"Supposedly, going against the grain is really difficult.It turns out, though, that it’s far more dangerous to cut with a rip saw, a blade that goes along the grain. It often leads to a botched project. When you’re cutting across the grain, you know exactly what to expect and won’t get surprised by a patch of resistance you didn’t expect.The same thing goes for sailing. It’s way easier to sail diagonally across the wind than it is to run with it.The story we tell ourselves about cutting across expectations is probably more difficult than the actual work.  END"}
{"prompt": "On knowing what you’re doing ###", "completion":"It’s pretty easy to know what you’re doing when you’re doing something that you’ve done before.Follow the path.It’s a lot more difficult when the task ahead is not quite the same as what you’ve done before. When wayfinding is required.That’s a different skill. That’s the skill of finding the common threads, seeing the analogies and leaping over the crevices. Knowing how to do something you haven’t quite done before.Which sort of knowing is more scarce?Which is more valuable?  END"}
{"prompt": "Danger, real and apparent ###", "completion":"It’s absurd to trim trees like this.There are high power lines.There’s a helicopter.There are cables.Do the math. It turns out, apparently, that a swinging chainsaw is far safer than having men and women climbing through trees with ropes and saws. We don’t notice someone falling out of a tree and breaking an arm (or worse) because it doesn’t make good TV. And if you assign 100 people to go out into the dense forest and expose themselves to this risk, it doesn’t feel nearly as fraught as the crazy helicopter option, even if it turns out to be safer.Often, that’s our instinct. To pay the persistent, consistent, significant price of deniable small dangers and avoid even the feeling of the big loss, even if it’s actually less dangerous.HT Tariq  END"}
{"prompt": "Which change? ###", "completion":"You can change the way people get the things they want.Or you can change what they want.Jeff Bezos and Bill Gates are two of the wealthiestpeople in history. They got that way by changing how people used tools to find new ways to get what they already wanted.Nelson Mandela and Jacqueline Novogratz picked a different mission. Trying to change what people want in the first place.Both paths are available, but they’re different.PS The only way to create action where there is none is to tell a story that resonates. I’m thrilled to offer you a preview of bestselling author Bernadette Jiwa’s new story skills workshop with Akimbo. It begins in a few weeks and you can sign up for updates right here.  END"}
{"prompt": "Bread and books ###", "completion":"Twenty years ago, I met the most famous baker in the world.I was in Paris for a speech, and visited Poilane, a bakery much smaller than its reputation would lead you to believe. I was hoping to take home an unbaked kilo of dough, a sourdough, one that I could use to spawn hundreds of new loaves over the years.Proud of my sneakiness, I began by ordering $30 worth of loaves and tarts. And then, offhandedly said, and an unbaked loaf please.The clerks would have none of this. It was impossible, it wasn’t done, it wasn’t permitted.Bluffing, I said, I’m confident that M. Poilane would be okay with it.On cue, a door behind the counter opened and a handsome man, dressed in a smock, came out to introduce himself. Even before he spoke, I could see the sparkle in his smile, and I figured we would hit it off.Instead of shooing me away, he invited me into his office. We spent two or three hours together that day, talking about his work. He showed me his huge library on the history of bread and we hung out in the basement, where it was over 100 degrees because of the wood-burning ovens. He sent me home with 2 kilos of unbaked dough. I kept that starter alive for years.Lionel understood that bread shared wasn’t bread lost. That no one was going to be able to steal his sourdough, even if they grew their own version at home. Over several years, he and I got together for long lunches in Paris when I was in town for a speech. I taught him about the internet, and he taught me about the magical intersection between generosity and idiosyncracy.Ideas, bread and books are all the same–they’re better when they’re shared. The posture of generosity and connection replaces a mindset of scarcity, and Lionel modeled this philosophy every day.When he and his wife were killed in a tragic helicopter crash, he left behind friends all over the world as well as two teenaged daughters. I honored his memory in the best way I could think of–by dedicating a book to him. My challenge was that I didn’t have a book in the works, nor was I planning to write one.The book I wrote, so that I could have a book to dedicate to Lionel, was Purple Cow. It captured his energy and his care and his impact on so many. And it changed the arc of my career as a writer as well.Lionel’s eldest daughter, Apollonia, immediately stepped up and took over the bakery, a task that few outsiders felt she could handle. After all, she was only a kid. And the patriarchal mindset in her industry and city didn’t help.Not only has the quality of the bakery been maintained, but its impact has only grown. Apollonia has modeled the clarity and contribution of her dad, and has shown us what it means to share ideas and to lead. From the first moment, she showed up in a way that honored the memory of her parents.Generosity, abundance and idiosyncrasy in service of craft and community.Her new book, her first in English, is out this week. Her dad changed my life, and her bread and the way she talks about it might change yours.  END"}
{"prompt": "Get what you want without compromise ###", "completion":"That’s the call of our times.Run a marathon without getting tired.Lose weight without dieting.Get ahead without working hard.Earn big money without risk…When you expose it this clearly, it’s obviously nonsense. Compromise is precisely what’s called for.You can’t have everything you want. But, if you care enough and trade enough and work hard enough, you might be able to get some things that matter.The real question might not be, what do you want, it might be, what do you care enough to compromise for?PS Today’s the last day to sign up for The Freelancer’s Workshop. This is our last session of the year.Time to start doing the work to earn better clients.  END"}
{"prompt": "On quitting a freelance gig ###", "completion":"A powerful thing a freelancer can do for her career is to figure out when to fire the bad clients. Firing bad clients is an essential step on the way to finding better ones.Identifying a client mismatch: The most obvious is a skills-based gap. They need something you’re struggling to do well.A temperament gap. They’re not treating you with respect.A quality gap. You want to do work that’s more difficult, sophisticated or esteemed, and they’re pushing you to cheap, fast and dumb.A pay gap. They’re paying you what you used to be worth, but as your skills and reputation have increased, you’re worth more now.A reputation gap. You don’t want to be associated with what they do or how they do it. Quitting in a huff rarely changes the approach a client takes. Instead, it’s the erosion of esteem and resources that eventually help them wake up. They don’t have to be fired with drama. In fact, everyone wins when you hand off a mismatched client to someone who can do a better job than you can in dealing with their needs and approaches.Freelancers need to worry about doing the right thing as well as maintaining their reputation. Leaving a project in midstream hurts your reputation, and your promise needs to mean something. But sometimes we express our fear of change by sticking around longer than we need to and longer than we promised to.The magic of freelancing is that projects end but careers persist. If you can walk away from a project at an end point, it probably moves your career forward more smoothly than if you develop the habit of quitting in the middle.A few questions to consider as you think this through: Have I done the hard work and continuing education, not to mention the market development and outbound connecting necessary to actually find and earn better clients to take this one’s place?Am I thinking about quitting because yesterday was particularly difficult, or because there’s a long-term strategic reason to do so?What’s the opportunity cost to my career to re-enlist for more work with this client instead of finding a better path forward? Every day spent doing this is a day I’m not spending doing something else.Can I walk away from this with pride, or is it a selfish act that I’m going to try to hide from others in the industry?What are the steps to take so that I can end this gig and also earn a reference from this client? One last thought: The best time to think through questions about ending a gig is before you take the gig. Having a set of principles makes it far easier to handle the pressures and grind of the hardest days of your work, because you’re making strategic choices, not decisions under duress.We talk more about this here.  END"}
{"prompt": "Where does this bus go? ###", "completion":"One approach, which is tempting in the short run, is to wait until people are on the bus and then ask each person where they want to go. Seek to build consensus. Try not to leave anyone out.The other approach, which works far better if you have a fleet of available buses, is to announce in advance where the bus is going. That way, anyone who wants to go where you’re headed can get onboard.Enrollment is critical. Enrollment allows leaders to lead. Not by endlessly querying those that they seek to serve, but by announcing their destination and then heading there, with all deliberate speed.  END"}
{"prompt": "Short and funny ###", "completion":"If we only forward the easy, short and funny things we read online, why are we surprised that our inbox is filled with nothing we’ll remember tomorrow?What would happened if instead, we shared the most complex, useful and thoughtful things we discovered instead?  END"}
{"prompt": "What’s the hard part? ###", "completion":"A simple question, often overlooked, as if ignoring it will make the problem go away.Everything worth doing has a hard part. If it didn’t, it would have been done already.The hard part, we can hope, will become easier if you allocate resources and focus and effort. That’s the point of the work, to whittle away at the hard part.But, if we refuse to ask and answer, then how can we possibly focus on what matters?It’s often a lot more fun and relaxing to focus on the parts that aren’t hard. Or to pretend that the hard part is easy.Better, I think, if we’ve decided that the work is worth doing, to get serious about the parts that are worth our effort.  END"}
{"prompt": "All or nothing ###", "completion":"Projects often require tools. The right tool gets the job done (all of it) and an inferior one leaves it undone (none of it).There’s a spectrum of cost, though. Tools require different levels of expense to purchase and use. If you use a cheap tool, you might end up with nothing. Use the right tool, and you get the desired result.Because the cost of tools usually fills out a linear scale from cheap to expensive, we can be lulled into believing that the results are also on a linear scale. But that’s not true.You’ll need to spend enough to get anything at all. Less than that is a total waste of time and money.Better to use a tool that cost more than you expected than to use a cheap tool and get nothing in return.PS The first lesson for The Freelancer’s Workshop went live this week. Today’s a great day to join. We teach technique, but mostly we help you become more brave.  END"}
{"prompt": "Two buttons on offer ###", "completion":"Every person in your organization needs to wear a button.And they can choose one of two. The choice is up to them, but they have to own it.One button says, I don’t care.The other button says, I’d like to help.It’s entirely possible that you’ve managed your way into a bureaucracy that acts like it’s wearing the first button. If that’s true, admit it and have you and your team put on the buttons. You’ll save a lot of heartache by telling us and your co-workers the truth.On the other hand, if you want the satisfaction that comes from wearing the second button, you’ve got to keep the promise.  END"}
{"prompt": "Up and to the right ###", "completion":"The typical performance chart has two axes. And one is time. We can’t do anything at all about time, so there’s really one axis.How fast did your profits grow?How many followers did you add to your account?How much muscle did you add to your calves?The problem with a graph that only has one axis is that it’s dumb. No room for nuance. It’s a blunt instrument, easy to game.If you want your profits to go up faster, simply cut corners. If you want more followers, buy them, or lower your standards, or pick a fight. And if you want to add muscle faster, sacrifice your health…Adults are better off realizing that we have the patience and intelligence to measure our lives on two or more axes. Which means that instead of just one quadrant, there are four. That maybe it makes sense to choose to pursue something longer term, more resilient, more important.That maybe the metric that was chosen for everyone isn’t really the metric you care about it.PS Applications are now open for the next session of the altMBA. Today’s the Early Deadline, and the best chance to set your sights for 2020 (yes, it’s almost 2020). The altMBA is a powerful, proven approach to leveling up and making work matter.  END"}
{"prompt": "The transition to leadership ###", "completion":"The flawed theory is that A+ students become good leaders.There’s no reason to think that this should be true.Doing well on tests, paying attention to what’s being asked, being diligent in short-term error correction–these are three hallmarks of someone who is good at school.None of these are important once you’re charged with charting a new path, with figuring out what to do next. In fact, they get in the way.We invented the educational regime to produce compliant factory workers. But the most compliant aren’t always suited to be the bravest, the most empathic or the most intuitive.  END"}
{"prompt": "Book list, Fall 2019 ###", "completion":"Start Finishingby Charlie GilkeyBeginner’s Pluckby Liz Forkin BohannonStillness is the Keyby Ryan HolidayChange the World/Manifesto for a Moral Revolutionby Jacqueline NovogratzThe Power Broker(audio) by Robert CaroYou Are Awesome by Neil PasrichaIgnore Your Customers and They’ll Go Awayby Micah SolomonSuper Thinkingby Weinberg and McCannThe Diversity Bonusby Scott PageLiving Breadby Daniel LeaderPoilaneby Apollonia PoilaneNothing Fancy by Alison RomanA Culture of Fact by Barbara ShapiroThe Entrepreneurial State by Mariana MazzucatoShe Came to Slay by Erica Armstrong DunbarNEW! A one-click way to add a whole bunch of books to your Amazon cart at once. To add 17 of my books to your Amazon cart with just one click, simply click here.And here’s a one-click way to fill your cart with books for kids, the best gift I know for the new parent who has everything but sleep.And here’s a link to Reedsy’s spreadsheet if you want to build your own. Be sure to make a copy of the sheet, as you can’t change that one. HT.  END"}
{"prompt": "Better/worse ###", "completion":"When things get difficult, is your instinct to invest the effort to make it better, or to set a trap so it all gets worse?Because if things get worse, well, then you won’t have to deal with them much longer.And if things get worse, then you’re off the hook.No longer your problem.If we don’t trust ourselves with making it better, if it’s too fraught with risk or emotionally painful, it might feel easier and simpler to simply make it worse and walk away.Investing in a system, a place, a relationship, a project–that’s a commitment. It puts you even more on the hook. That person who is right in front of you becomes more real and the problem becomes even more urgent.And it might even be worth it.[Grateful for you and for everything you do to make things better. Thank you.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Discontinuous thought ###", "completion":"The gap between mobile and desktop is:[shift] ENTERWhen one is typing on a laptop, the assumption is that you’ll keep going with your thought until you push ‘send’ or ‘publish’.But on a smart phone, the enter key is your publish button. So your text, your Slack message, or your tweet happens as soon as you type a single sentence.That’s good for platforms that want to deliver the endorphin hit of a mic drop, but not particularly helpful in sharing complex ideas. And the ideas that are worth sharing are the complex ones.PS Today’s the last day to sign up for the Story Skills Workshop. Hope to see you there.  END"}
{"prompt": "A chance for better ###", "completion":"Perfect is the enemy of good.Of course it is.But that simple sentence becomes more urgent when we realize that nothing (and no one) is perfect. How could it be?And so, if your hero, your cause, your holiday, your background, your relationship… if it’s not perfect, does that mean you should hide it? Be ashamed of it? Be afraid of it?We’re surrounded by injustice, and yesterday was even worse. It’s so easy to find things that are imperfect and criticize them or worse, shame them.Better, I think, to find glimmers of good and seek to amplify them. Mistakes can be seen, errors can be improved upon, progress can be made. But only if we embrace the chance for good.The imperfect is an opportunity for better.  END"}
{"prompt": "If every day were Thanksgiving ###", "completion":"It’s my favorite holiday for a good reason: It doesn’t matter what country, what culture or what background you come from…Gratitude works.Gratitude scales.Gratitude creates a positive cycle of more gratitude.When in doubt, default to gratitude.[And, for the fourth year in a row, we’re offering the free Thanksgiving Reader. You can print it out at home and have it ready for the holiday, wherever and whenever you choose to celebrate. It’s a modern tradition.]  END"}
{"prompt": "The uncomfortable combination of effort and acceptance ###", "completion":"We have the opportunity to expend the maximum effort on behalf of a worthy goal.And we also have the choice to mindfully accept whatever happens next.Acceptance is a choice in the service of our happiness and the ability to try again tomorrow.When we detach our emotional state from the results of our effort, we maximize the chances that our effort will be focused and effective. We’re not trying to control the outcome, simply putting our best effort into creating the conditions that lead to the desired outcome.The opportunity is: to go all in, andto be okay with what happens after that.  END"}
{"prompt": "Knowing the answer before you ask the question ###", "completion":"The first rule of cross-examination at trial is that you never ask a question that you don’t already know the answer to.Inquiry has a place. Inquiry in the pursuit of science, of discovery and of learning is essential. But inquiry almost never belongs in a presentation. That’s because the presentation exists to communicate what you already know, not to discover something new.That’s why comedians try out their new material in small clubs.That’s why you should try out your job interview answers long before you go on a job interview.And that’s why you shouldn’t throw a steel ball at the window of the new truck you’re launching unless you’re really, really sure it’s not going to break.[Either that, or know that what you’re selling is live magic, the possibility of ‘it might not work,’ the generosity of art in the moment. But they rarely belong in the same interaction.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Golf or surfing? ###", "completion":"Every golf scorecard has a map of the course on the back. Moving the hole placement is a big deal, accompanied by meetings and oversight. A big shift is whether or not it rained last week.On the other hand, every wave is the first and last of its kind. It has never happened before and will never happen again.Golf is an endless asymptotic journey toward elusive perfection.Surfing, on the other hand, is about wayfinding. A surf park with a repeated wave might be useful for training, but it’s not surfing.Metaphor over, the question is: what’s your job like?It gets a lot easier if you bring the appropriate mindset. It’s hard to surf with a putter.  END"}
{"prompt": "The uses of Kickstarter ###", "completion":"A friend reached out because she’s thinking of using Kickstarter to fund her new book. That conversation led to a discussion about what Kickstarter is actually good at and how to use it. It turns out that there are many options (and some misunderstanding as well).The uses of Kickstarter:To raise money you don’t have for a project that you’ll be able to build and then ship to your supporters and people who already know you and trust you.To create a community for an art project that isn’t designed to be a profitable business.To have a temporary online store (instead of something more permanent, like Shopify), where you can run a pop-up and then be done (and move on to the next thing). It’s an effective way to highlight the tension of go/no go.To capture the energy and attention of large numbers of people who don’t know your work (this almost never ever works and is the worst of these reasons).*To give your existing fans and followers an organized way to support you and to see it unfold in real-time.To have a simple, structured place to put your idea. By limiting your options and giving you deniability, it makes it easier for some to move forward.To give you a safe place to succeed as well as to not-succeed. There’s a limit on the time and money you can invest because of the structure of the platform.Most of the time, for most projects, Kickstarter isn’t the answer to the question you’re asking. That’s because it could more accurately be called Kickfinisher–you build a following first, over time, and then Kickstarter is the moment in time that those followers show up for your work.More here.*Kickstarter is powerful when used as intended. But it’s not very good at creating ‘hits’. It turns out that while 17,000,000 users have, in total, funded 173,000 projects, that’s only about a third of the total. 290,000 projects haven’t succeeded in being funded at all. And only 400 projects raised more than a million dollars each. That means your chances of creating a viral hit that reaches strangers who will engage with your work is about one in a thousand.  END"}
{"prompt": "Things unknown ###", "completion":"Knowledge is a great equalizer. It’s available to more people than ever before, in exchange for effort, and the person with insight has an extraordinary advantage over the one who doesn’t.So, what don’t you know?Which tools could help you do your work better…What strategies have been proven to work in this situation…What’s been tried that hasn’t worked…Where is the line between the immutable laws governing this field and the variables that humans always create…And, most of all, what do the people you serve truly need and want?  END"}
{"prompt": "Two sides of the internet ###", "completion":"The architecture of the internet is about choice. That’s where the resilience comes from.Email can take one of a trillion paths to get from me to you. You have millions of pages to choose from when you want to read a blog post or learn a programming concept.On the other hand, the business of the internet is often about no choice. Investors seek organizations that create natural monopolies, businesses with such significant network effects that they can clear the board and create infinite returns.These network-effect businesses succeed at first because the benefits to each user are significant. We voluntarily choose to engage because it’s better (cheaper, faster, more fun) than doing it somewhere else.But then, the implacable desire for ‘more’ kicks in and suddenly, this monopoly isn’t about serving us, it’s about enriching the owners.And so the tension. The tension between the open resilient world of choice and the rigid and inflexible dominant monopoly.  END"}
{"prompt": "Top speed is overrated ###", "completion":"The Amtrak Acela is capable of going well over a hundred miles an hour.And yet, it’s not unusual for a 90-mile ride on the Acela to be only three or four minutes shorter than it would be on a more traditional train.I can drive my Prius from NY to Syracuse faster than I can fly there. Even though a plane has been engineered to have a much higher top speed, the door to door costs of travel (security theatre, parking, checking in, the rest of the last mile once I land) aren’t impacted at all by the top speed of the chosen form of transport.Top speed is easy to measure and fun to work on. But for most of the people you work with, there are dozens of factors that matter more than the easily measured versions of top speed that are talked about.Fix the systems first. Look at the overhead of context switching. Bravery, empathy and other real skills matter far more than horsepower.  END"}
{"prompt": "Slow is relative ###", "completion":"In between the holidays, it all seems to slow down. Most days, there is little traffic on the road (or on websites). Fewer products launched, fewer inbound emails, fewer things to check off a todo list.And yet, if someone in 1820 had lived at the pace we live in December 2019, she would probably have dropped dead from exhaustion.A store in New York that feels slow this time of year might be recording record traffic if it had the same turnout in Scottsdale or Tempe.Two things are true: The world is faster and crazier than it has ever been before. And the world is as slow and predictable as it will ever be again.Bustle and crises are local conditions.PS The last week of the year is quiet, which leaves time for new plans, new learning and new opportunities. I hope you’ll consider signing up for the ninth session of The Marketing Seminar (it begins in a few weeks, but if you visit today, you can sign up for updates). You can find my Udemy courses here as well.  END"}
{"prompt": "Distracted by wide funnels ###", "completion":"If you have enough at the top of your interest funnel, you don’t need to be very effective at conversion to seem successful at the other end of the funnel.And so, a billion people visit Wikipedia and 32 million become registered users and 3,800 earn the privilege of being trusted enough to create a new article without oversight.TED has a billion views which leads to 4,000 TEDx events that reach hundreds of thousands of in-person participants and 2,500 end up coming to Vancouver.Kickstarter has millions of visitors, tens of thousands of projects and a few of those do more than a million dollars in revenue.The internet has enabled the wide funnel, but it’s incredibly uncommon. That’s not because the last part of the process is difficult, it’s because the first part–becoming a huge hit–is. Best not to waste attention if you can avoid it.  END"}
{"prompt": "On seeking a category ###", "completion":"A new ice-cream shop opened up downtown. Do you want to go?Every word in that sentence is easy to understand. We know that a ‘new ice cream shop‘ is a bit like the other ice cream shops in our experience, except a little different and probably better.And we know where downtown is.That’s a different question than:Have you subscribed to Prodigy? (1989)Want to see my iPhone? (2008)Did you hear that podcast? (2004)Do you know how to program an Arduino? (2016)When you ask a question about a new entry that’s also in a new category, you’re now trying to do two things: Explain what the thing is. What it rhymes with. What it does. What the parameters are, whether it can be trusted to work, whether or not you’ll feel stupid doing it…Ask whether your friend, now that she vaguely understands what the thing is, even wants it. I’ve been living in this state of mystery for three decades. I’ve been asked by generous and interested folks, what’s email? as well as, what’s a cd-rom? and now, what’s the altMBA?First you need to explain the category (which is never glib or easy) and then you can help people figure out whether they want to leap or not.This is one reason why competition is such a gift. If you have competition, now you have others helping you explain the category. With competition, you can say things like, We’re like Uber, but without the scandals.  END"}
{"prompt": "Toward peace ###", "completion":"Peace might not mean getting everyone else to do what you want them to do.Instead, it might involve understanding that people don’t always want what we want and don’t often believe what we believe. Everyone has their own narrative and is struggling with their own fears.We can begin there.Most of the time, people want to be seen, understood and appreciated. And if we can offer someone dignity, we give them a gift that’s difficult to find.  END"}
{"prompt": "Is optimal the point? ###", "completion":"As soon as competitive people start to measure something, there’s pressure to make it better. And once better reaches the maximum level, it’s optimal.But perhaps that’s not really the goal.What about resilient?Or perhaps we could value delightful, stressless or reliable instead.Optimal is ultimately sterile. It leaves no room for much of anything else, including joy.  END"}
{"prompt": "The travel agent’s problem ###", "completion":"Not just travel agents, but all agents.Information scarcity is disappearing.Forty years ago, passengers didn’t know which airline flew where and when. And forty years ago, airlines had no easy way to find out who wanted to fly somewhere. Today, of course, there’s no shortage of information or ability to connect. So paying 10% of their revenue to a human who will use a terminal instead of the passenger using a computer hardly makes sense for the airline.Movie studios used to have to wrestle with information scarcity, and so did talented creators. Actors weren’t sure who was making what, and studios had imperfect information about who to cast. Today, IMDB (and proprietary tools) surface enormous amounts of information for the studios. They know who is working on what, who is a pain in the neck, who can add to the effectiveness of the project. And the creators are part of networks, formal and informal, that get them information faster and more efficiently than a single human often could.The same thing is happening to car dealers. In fact, just about any job where you used to hoard information and charge a fee is now in danger.When your clients know more than you do, it’s difficult to be an old-fashioned agent who is making money based on information scarcity.The alternative is to become a network hub who creates value through information abundance.  END"}
{"prompt": "The real scam of ‘influencer’ ###", "completion":"Is popular the same as good?Is popular possible?Is popular your goal?There are tens of thousands of humans spending their days trying to be popular on Instagram, buying outfits, wearing hats and seeking their version of cute. People from all backgrounds and genders, hoping to be the next Kardashian.Facebook is filled with anonymous bots seeking to be popular.The highest-paid YouTuber this year was an 8-year old kid.And Twitter is the center of the politi-sphere, with each self-made pundit seeking to outdo the others.Billions of hours spent by millions, mostly for free, to enrich a few social media platforms.The lessons of the high school lunch table run deep.Part of the scam is that the pyramid scheme of attention will somehow pay off for a lot of people. It won’t. It can’t. The math doesn’t hold up. Someone is going to win a lottery, but it probably won’t be us.And a bigger part is that the things you need to do to be popular (the only metric the platforms share) aren’t the things you’d be doing if you were trying to be effective, or grounded, or proud of the work you’re doing.When there’s a single metric (likes/followers), we end up looking in the rear-view mirror when we should be driving instead.Maximizing the benefits for the social media platform you’re on are different than maximizing the benefits for you and those you are leading.  END"}
{"prompt": "Zooming in–The magic of looking more closely ###", "completion":"Too often, we take what we are offered at face value. The zoom setting is determined by someone else, and in our rush to get onto the next thing, we fail to discover what is going on within.The act of zooming (actually or metaphorically) is a modern thrill, the opportunity to see what was there as we move closer to what is there. Suddenly, new levels reveal themselves to us, and we begin to see the mechanisms that are hidden from us at first glance.My hunch is that once a medical student has understood what makes us tick, people don’t look quite the same anymore. And once you understand how the banking system works, a credit card offer feels a bit different as well.If you want a cool example of how this works, click on this photo of 84 million stars, a composite of photos shot by a telescope in Chile. The ESO telescope is capable of putting together a 9 billion pixel image.But once you click once, you can zoom, again and again and again. Those repeated clicks reminded me of just how vast the galaxy is, more than I ever could have learned from a single picture. It turns out that this vastness is repeated in every system in our lives. If we only care enough to zoom.  END"}
{"prompt": "This will change your mind ###", "completion":"How often is that true?Not very.Changing a mind is difficult work. It won’t happen with a standard intervention, and it probably requires enrollment on the part of the person you’re engaging with as well.  END"}
{"prompt": "Choosing to be a citizen ###", "completion":"Citizens aren’t profit-seeking agents who are simply constrained by rules. Citizens behave even if there isn’t a rule about it.Citizens aren’t craven partisans, voting for party over fact. Citizens do the right thing because they can, even if the short-term cost is high.Citizens live by the rule of community: If everyone did what I’m about to do, would it lead to a useful outcome?Sometimes we call citizens heroes, which is a shame, because their actions should be commonplace, not rare. The myth of success based on short-term self-interest has been disproven again and again. It seems obvious that leaving things better than you found them is a powerful step forward, because you’ll probably be back this way again one day soon.Every successful community, every organization, every family has citizens. It’s the citizens who define the future, because their commitment to the long-term matters.  END"}
{"prompt": "In search of reciprocity ###", "completion":"If your posture is to give hoping that you’ll earn the moral high ground and thus get something back, you didn’t give first.You gave second.You’re saying, how can I incur a debt, one that I’m going to use to achieve my goals.If the words ‘I’ and ‘my’ appear in your reasoning before you get to the work you’re hoping to contribute, then your goal is reciprocity. Calling it generosity merely confuses the issue.  END"}
{"prompt": "Luck on demand ###", "completion":"Alas, not an option.Luck over time is inevitable, though.If you show up with good work and generous action, again and again, sooner or later something that appears to others to be luck will appear.Because luck over time is a symptom of productive contributions. It rarely happens when you need it most, it almost never happens in equal proportion to what feels fair (to you or to others), but it happens.The trap is hoping that a short-term focus on luck on demand will pay off instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Cars, houses and TVs ###", "completion":"Compare 1960 to today:Cars are a bit faster, a bit safer, higher in quality and a lot more expensive.Houses are much bigger, a bit more efficient and enormously more expensive.TVs on the other hand, are dramatically bigger, dramatically more efficient, dramatically more powerful, significantly more reliable and way cheaper. For $300, you can buy a 49 inch TV that would have cost a million dollars in 1960.What happened?Cars, with the exception of new electric drivetrains, are basically the same thing they were, except designed with computers and assembled by robots.Houses, with the exception of some prefab edge cases, are still assembled by hand, on location, by skilled workers. And they went up in scale because real estate prices and income inequality went up even more.But TVs–they made a leap. A leap from analog to digital, a leap from tubes to solid-state. Moore’s Law is at work on your television, but it’s been largely shut out of the two largest purchases most people make.When you see computers and networks show up in an industry, it’s easy to predict what will happen next.  END"}
{"prompt": "Awareness vs. experience ###", "completion":"We are more aware than ever before. More aware of victims of violence, or a natural disaster. More aware of insane wealth or grinding poverty. It gets beamed to us, regularly.We’re even more often exposed to social hijinks, sports stars or business moguls.We’re aware that people run a marathon, or fast for a week. That they start a business or meditate every day. They know how to code, or to take pictures.But there’s a difference between hearing about it and experiencing it.There’s no excuse for being uninformed. But when it matters, there’s also no good reason for being inexperienced.There’s often a piece of glass between us and the world as it’s delivered to us. That glass magnifies awareness, but it doesn’t have the same impact as experience does. It can’t.Our awareness has been stretched wider than ever in history, but often at the cost of taking away a lifetime of experiences.  END"}
{"prompt": "Obese dogs ###", "completion":"Dogs aren’t supposed to have willpower, that’s what they have us for.Marketing changes culture and culture changes us. And then we end up changing the world around us. Not just the dogs, but all of it.It’s probably a mistake for us to wait until profit-driven corporations start to worry about side effects on their own. But the moment we start voting with our attention and our dollars, they’ll begin to respond.We get what we pay for. And sometimes, we pay for what we get.  END"}
{"prompt": "The only one who has heard all of it ###", "completion":"…is you.Jerry Garcia performed thousands of times, and he was the only one who heard every performance.The same is true for the work you’ve created, the writing you’ve done, the noise in your head–you’re the only person who has heard every bit of it.Tell us what we need to know. Not because you need to hear yourself repeat it, but because you believe we need to hear it.Take your time and lay it out for us, without worrying about whether or not we’ve heard you say it before. We probably haven’t.CREATORS: I hope you’ll check out the newest Akimbo workshop. I’ve been working on it for nearly a year. It’s built for people with a craft–for artists, writers, musicians and anyone who has something that they’d like to more effectively share with the world. It’s a modern writer’s workshop, for more than writers, and it happens worldwide.Sign up for more info–we launch in two weeks.  END"}
{"prompt": "As simple as necessary (but not simpler) ###", "completion":"The convenience regime is in full force. You don’t often earn points by being baroque, rococo or byzantine.Given a choice, people will simply move on to the next thing.As simple as necessary is missed by many professionals who should call themselves designers, but don’t. Consider the 30 digit code that Microsoft wants me to type in… 30 digits? That’s more than a quintillion possible combinations. A lot more. Why?Or notice the new user interface for the useful Audio Hijack program… It’s a two-dimensional grid with clickable icons. Why isn’t it simpler?And but not simpler is missed, more and more often. Items that are dumbed down to the point where they are too simple to get useful work done. Where the power is hidden from the user, because the user can’t be trusted with it. Apple continues to make things simpler than they need to be, all in the name of short-term convenience.The balancing act is real. It requires empathy, the empathy to realize that not everyone knows what you know and not everyone wants what you want.  END"}
{"prompt": "The days in between ###", "completion":"Calendars are obviously artificial.Leap year isn’t a thing. Unless we want it to be.A bonus day, to do whatever we like with.Actually, we can have a bonus day whenever we choose, because the cadence of our days is up to us, more than we often want to admit.If you had more time, what would you do with it?  END"}
{"prompt": "What should we remember? ###", "completion":"Years from now, after this event is long over, what should we remember about it?A week from now, when the crisis hits, what should we remember about this meeting?Tomorrow, when the day gets busy, what would you like me to remember about the discussion we just had?Begin with the end in mind.  END"}
{"prompt": "So far/Not yet ###", "completion":"What to do in the face of failure? What happens when you’ve done your best and it still doesn’t get the review, close the sale or win the race?One approach is to embrace the easy path of did my best = failure therefore, I should give up or simply accept mediocrity.The other, the growth mindset, is to realize that while you did your best, it’s not your best forever, it’s just what you’ve done so far. And that while you haven’t created what you set out to create, the key word, the one you have to remind yourself of daily, is yet.That growth mindset demands advice and collisions with the marketplace. That mindset means that you need to see what those you seek to serve have to say because without that insight, your ‘yet’ might not arrive.By all means, ignore those that aren’t in on the joke, that haven’t signed up for the journey, that don’t want to go where you want to go.For everyone else, though, the answer is, thanks, wait until you see what’s next.  END"}
{"prompt": "What does ‘better’ mean? ###", "completion":"It’s trickier than it sounds. It’s often conflated with ‘quality’ (which means consistent adherence to spec) and ‘luxury’ (which means it costs more than it needs to).Here’s the thing: Swedish matches are better. They might be the best in the world. They do everything a match should do–but better. They light more quickly, burn hotter, and give more match satisfaction.Except you probably don’t have a box in your house.Because you don’t care that much about matches.Because for you (and for billions of non-match-loving people around the world), this sort of better isn’t your sort of better. Your sort of better, when it comes to matches, might be: free and handy.The lesson is simple: better is always in the eye of the beholder.PS Coming back by popular demand is the Story Skills Workshop, led by bestselling author Bernadette Jiwa. We open for registration on March 3rd, and you can register for more information by visiting here.  END"}
{"prompt": "Overwhelmed is a choice ###", "completion":"The internet is infinite. For humans, anyway.In the time you’ve been reading this, more than an hour of video has been uploaded to YouTube. You will never catch up.The thing is, the world has always been infinite compared to human scale.Living on a bucolic farm in the 14th century, there was no need to get bored. You could study earthworms, write a sonnet or have a conversation with your neighbor…We widen or close our lens on the world in order to avoid becoming too bored or feeling too small.When you first encounter a new web service, go on Slack or get back to your computer after a break, it’s natural to feel overwhelmed. Too much to sort. We want a foundation to stand on, but firm footing eludes us for a while.And then we find it again. Because we intentionally make ourselves unaware of the rest of it.Right now, orbiting a distant star, the folks on Planet 10 are having a conflict about something or other. But we have no idea. And right now, someone who works for you has a question, or the store you’re not in is having a problem, or a co-worker is doing something without your oversight–and it’s all proceeding without you, because total information awareness is a fiction.Find your footing and do your work. It’s a choice.  END"}
{"prompt": "What’s a fellowship? ###", "completion":"For five hundred years, a fellowship was understood, Tolkien-style, to be a collection of humans engaged in mutual support. [Definition]It’s hard to imagine something more reassuring, challenging and productive, all at once.To be part of an organized fellowship is a responsibility and also the chance to leap forward. Join the others, people like you, eager to see and to be seen, and most of all, to be of service. (Worth noting that ‘fellow’ it is not gender-specific and in fact is used in the Old Testament in reference to women).A few decades ago, our status and selection-based culture shifted a common meaning of the word to describe a sort of prize. You get picked for a fellowship, maybe you even get some money, and you can definitely put it on your resume. Missing, too often, is the original magic, the idea that the others are there with you, side by side, together.That new sort of fellowship isn’t really helpful to most of us. I’m more interested in the traditional, effective kind. Mutual support and a shared journey.There are organic fellowships everywhere, which sprouted on their own, seemingly out of nowhere, and if you find yourself in one, that’s a wonder to be cherished. They don’t need a name or a published agenda. Simply being in it is sufficient.For the rest of us, there’s the chance to go start one. Start a fellowship, invite some people along, and then do the hard work to keep it going. All for one and one for all.TODAY we posted the first lesson for our Podcasting workshop. It’s the perfect day to join, to connect and to start being heard. Check out what our graduates have said… Hope to see you there.  END"}
{"prompt": "Wasting it ###", "completion":"When you bought your first smartphone, did you know you would spend more than 1,000 hours a year looking at it?Months later, can you remember how you spent those hours?When you upgraded to a new smartphone, so you could spend more hours on it, did you think about how you had spent so much of your ‘free’ time the year before?If we wasted money the way we waste time, we’d all be bankrupt.  END"}
{"prompt": "Time shifting ###", "completion":"If the people you seek to engage with have a choice, they’re likely to make a choice that’s in their self-interest.The question is: When?Is it in a high school student’s self-interest to light up a cigarette on a Friday night? In the short run, the answer might be yes. Ask that person in forty years if it was a good idea to be tricked by advertising and peer pressure into a lifetime of expense and illness, and the answer is probably ‘no’.When we try to change behavior to make culture better, what we’re actually doing is trying to get people to change their timeframe. The more sophisticated an audience believes it is, the easier it is to help them see that there’s more than the next ten seconds in front of them. Mobs, on the other hand, only care about what feels good in this very moment.The insight is in understanding that perception of time–not just money, not just features, not just narrative–is actually the driving force of much of what is happening when we try to change minds.Not, is this a good idea? but when?  END"}
{"prompt": "Action figures ###", "completion":"Those little plastic figurines don’t actually move. If we’re being honest, they’re not action figures, they’re remind-us-of-action figures.Many of the totems in our lives don’t actually do anything all on their own. Books don’t read themselves, and flowers don’t love us.But they can represent something. They can remind us of what’s possible. They can trigger us to be in the right state of mind.Consider surrounding yourself with totems that invite generous action. They’re souvenirs of your best self.  END"}
{"prompt": "Just getting through the day ###", "completion":"To what end?Is tomorrow another day to get through?After you get through all the days, then what happens?What if we saw opportunities instead of tasks? Chances instead of risks?  END"}
{"prompt": "Portfolio school: Get better clients ###", "completion":"There’s a tragedy unfolding all around us, unevenly distributed. It’s about health and it’s also about the economy. We are called upon to not panic, to try to focus, to figure out how to make it all work. And many of us are overwhelmed. From health care workers who are burning the candle at both ends to parents with too many demands on their time, it’s been crazy.And if you’re a freelancer, it can be challenging because the steady gigs or the easy gigs might be on hold.If you’re fortunate enough to have time on your hands, what to do with the downtime?If you’re looking for a gig or if you’re hoping for a new client…It’s easy to get stuck waiting. The alternative is not to wait.More time spent fretting isn’t going to help.The alternative is to dig in and build your portfolio.A portfolio that includes three things:ONE: What are you good at? You can dramatically increase your skillset (including your attitude about the work you do) in just a few days of focused effort.TWO: What have you done? You can actually do work, real work, volunteer work, spec work, digital work and you can do it right now.THREE: How have you expressed 1 and 2? When we look at your portfolio, what do we see?You are not your resume. Your prospects are based on the work you’ve done and the way you do it.When you do a good job on your skills, your work history and your expression, you’re more likely to get better clients.Getting better clients is super simple and really difficult. The current environment makes it even harder, which means we need to be prepared for a longer, more difficult process ahead.The benefit of better clients is pretty clear: They challenge you to do better work, they talk about you and your work, they pay on time, they want you to do work you’re proud of and they’re motivated to do more than most people expect.The difficult part is becoming the sort of freelancer that better clients seek out.Because while it’s true that better clients make you a better freelancer, the work is too important to simply wait for them to show up. Particularly during difficult and uncertain times. Maybe this is an opportunity to reset expectations and recommit to the practice.If you’re seeking better clients, I hope you’ll check out The Freelancer’s Workshop. It launches today. You can save some money by clicking the purple circle, which is at maximum value today.We considered canceling this scheduled session of our online workshop, but for many, this is a good moment to take a breath, settle in and level up. These are perilous times, and it’s easy to get pessimistic and stuck. Let’s learn together instead.Here’s to health and peace of mind as we all slog forward together.[At 11 am ET today, I’ll be taking your questions on working from home, freelancing and resilience. We’ll be on Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn, tech permitting–LinkedIn gets posted later.]  END"}
{"prompt": "GenC ###", "completion":"It doesn’t really pay to classify multitudes by their age–every generation is complex and intermingles with all the others.But it might be a useful way to understand the issues we’ve faced and where we might be heading.Generation C was inaugurated with the events created by Covid-19, and it is defined by a new form of connection.There’s a juxtaposition of the physical connection that was lost as we shelter in place, and the digital connection that so many are finding online.Not just a before and after for the economy, but for culture, for health, for expectations. School and jobs are different now, probably for the long term.No idea or behavior shift has ever spread more quickly or completely in the history of the planet. In seven weeks, the life of every single person on Earth changed, and the unfolding tragedy and the long slog forward will drive expectations for years. Expectations about being part of a physical community, about the role of government and about what we hope for our future.If previous cycles of media were about top-down broadcast (from radio, TV and cable), the last few years have been about the long tail, about giving a microphone to anyone who wanted one. But now, the peer to peer power of the internet is dominating. The Kardashians won’t be as important as 3,000 people with a thousand connections each. Never mind a million people with 100 each.Companies are now competing to see how few employees they have instead of how many. The lattices of the connection economy are racing to replace the edifice complex of the previous one.And if Covid-19 and Connection are the first two C’s, the third one is going to be Carbon.Because we’re going to need to pay. All of us. To pay for the dislocations and to pay for the treatment and to pay for the recovery.Worldwide cataclysms are different from local ones. As we shift gears and seek to revitalize our economy, put people to work and build a resilient future, it might be tempting to drill and burn, and to try to adopt an emergency footing that disregards any long-term future more than a few months ahead. But GenC may be too wise for that. And they may be connected enough to speak up and overrule the baby boomers.A threat and an enemy will focus public attention. For a long time, that enemy was other people or other nations, and an us-vs-them mindset was a great way to get attention or get elected. But just as we came to understand that you can’t bully a virus, you can’t personalize carbon either.The worldwide challenge of carbon is not a problem for someone else, it’s a problem for all of us. Using carbon consumption as a way to pay for rebuilding our community brings all three Cs together.Emergencies are overrated as a response mechanism. Preparation and prevention are about to become a more popular alternative.My generation was the dominant voice for sixty years. A voice that worried about the next 24 hours, not the next 24 years. That’s about to shift, regardless of what year you were born.What can we do that matters instead?  END"}
{"prompt": "I’ll go with my principles tomorrow ###", "completion":"In the short run, it’s easy to abandon what we believe. Deep down, we assume that once things go back to normal, so will we.Organizations end up with bullies, predators and bad actors for only one reason: In this moment, it’s easier to keep them. There’s some sort of urgency that makes asking them to leave too difficult right now, so we put it off for a little while. When we make a just this once exception, we’ve already made a decision about what’s truly important.And the same goes for those moments when we’re inclined to be, just for a moment, a bully, a predator or a bad actor as well. Few people decide to be selfish for the long haul.What makes it a principle is that we do it now, even though (especially though) it’s hard.  END"}
{"prompt": "Communicating online (the big leaps) ###", "completion":"It’s not just like the real world but with keyboards.Leap 1: Attention is too easy to steal online, so don’t. Spam is a bad idea. Interrupting hundreds or millions of people doesn’t cost you much, but costs each person a lot. You wouldn’t stand up in the middle of a Broadway play and start selling insurance from the audience. Don’t do it with your keyboard. Permission is anticipated, personal and relevant.Leap 2: There’s a difference between asynchronous and synchronous interaction. We know this intuitively in the real world (a letter is different from a phone call) but online, it’s profound. A discussion board isn’t the same as a Zoom call. It turns out that we can create rich and layered conversations with async communication, but we also have to be just a bit more patient.Leap 3: More than one person can ‘talk’ at a time. In the real world, that’s impossible. At a table for six, we take turns talking. But in a chat room, we can all talk at the same time. Use it well and you can dramatically increase information exchange. But if you try to follow all the threads, or you miss what you need, then it’s actually less effective.Leap 4: Sometimes we leave a trail. Most real-life conversations are inherently off the record because the words disappear right after we say them. But if you use a keyboard, or you’re attached to a server, assume you’re being recorded and act appropriately. And sometimes the people who are talking are anonymous (which never happens in the real world).It’s possible, with effort, to transform business communications (and schooling) away from the top-down, synchronized, compliance-focused, off-the-record, hierarchical and slow status quo to something significantly more fluid and powerful. But we’ll need to do it on purpose.PS the free co-working space we’re offering has become a successful community hub. Thanks to the Akimbo team for putting so much into creating it, and for the thousands of people who have found energy and solace by being part of it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Generous isn’t always the same as free ###", "completion":"People have been generous with you through the years. A doctor who took the time to understand your pain. A server who didn’t hesitate and brought you what you needed before you even knew you needed it. A boss who gave you a project at just the right time.Gifts create connection and possibility, but not all gifts have monetary value. In fact, some of the most important gifts involve time, effort and care instead.Money was invented long after humans arrived on the scene, and commerce can’t solve all problems.In this moment when we’re so disconnected and afraid, the answer might not be a freebie. That might simply push us further apart. The answer might be showing up to do the difficult work of connection, of caring and of extending ourselves where it’s not expected.  END"}
{"prompt": "Is everything going to be okay? ###", "completion":"That depends.If we mean, Is everything going to be the way it was and the way I expected it to be? then the answer is no. The answer to that question is always no, it always has been.If we mean, Is everything going to be the way it is going to be? then the answer is yes. Of course. If we define whatever happens as okay, then everything will be.Given that everything is going to be the way it’s going to be, we’re left with an actually useful and productive question instead: What are you going to do about it?  END"}
{"prompt": "Let’s do it together ###", "completion":"As we’ve seen through these challenging times, the real skills matter. The ability to hold it all together, to lead, to bring insight and care to interactions. Too often, we’re pushed to only focus on the easily measured, but each of us knows that the human elements are critical.We’re relaunching the Real Skills Conference. We ran it a few months ago and it was the most effective and extraordinary online event we’ve ever experienced. More than 97% of the participants in this two-hour online conference were still actively engaged at the end of it.It runs on April 24, but you need to sign up in advance, since it will be fully enrolled.You can find out all the details at realskillsconference.com. If you click the purple circle on the site, you’ll save quite a bit on the fee if you register today.We can move forward, together.  END"}
{"prompt": "You are your clips ###", "completion":"A divisive radio personality, asking for forgiveness, says to his critics, don’t judge me by my clips.Why not?The things we say and the projects we do are our clips. Taken together, they are our contribution. If you don’t want to be judged by a clip of something you said or did, the path is pretty clear.The best resume says, please judge me by my clips.  END"}
{"prompt": "Moods and actions ###", "completion":"The way we feel can be triggered by outside events.And that can change how we act.And the way we act can reinforce how we feel.Of course, the opposite is true as well, and far more in our active control.How we act always changes how we feel.This is a perfect moment for upskilling. For a sprint in learning something that’s difficult to learn. Not because a teacher or a boss made us do it, but because we chose to. Not only do we get to keep that skill forever, but the act of taking control and expending the effort will change our mood.And this is the perfect moment for generous connection. Going way beyond the news of the day, we have the chance to create intimate digital interactions that last.It’s a significant posture shift, one which might change who you see when you look in the mirror.We might not be able to do anything about external events, but we have control over our actions. Sometimes, it’s hard to stare right into that opportunity, because it comes with a lot of responsibility.What will you learn today? Who will you teach?  END"}
{"prompt": "Fill in the blanks ###", "completion":"Other than multiple-choice, this is one of the easiest ways to work through a test or a workday.Find the blanks, fill them in.Here’s the question: Who decided what the blanks were?We get to write our own, any time we choose.Life’s actually an essay, not a series of responses to someone else’s agenda.  END"}
{"prompt": "Today’s special ###", "completion":"I just noticed something about the ubiquitous sign at every diner.On one hand, it means, the special that was assigned to today. It’s possessive.But on the other hand, it could simply mean, today is special.Because both are true.Plan accordingly.  END"}
{"prompt": "Self, community and motivation ###", "completion":"Me & Nowvs.Us & LaterThis is the conflict every culture lives with. Modern industrialism has embraced the extraordinary power of instant gratification and has amplified it by reminding us that only you know what you want and need.Fast food plus the me generation. What you want, when you want it.Years ago, I co-authored a paper that, if implemented would probably have solved our shameful shortage of available organs for donation. In prioritizing people who need a donation, we’d settle a tie by sorting people by how long they’d been on the donor registry. If you’re not willing to sign up to give (one day far in the future) then you don’t get priority to get (when you need it). The self-focused need to be on the list early would essentially eliminate the need for a ranking at all, because humans have been taught to do what helps them now before worrying about later or everyone else. Enough people would panic and race to be on the registry that the shortage would soon disappear.In our culture, turning the us and later narrative (you should sign up for the registry to help a stranger one day) into me and now (better sign up today or you’ll regret it) is a generous hack. We shouldn’t have to do it, it’s less resilient, but it would work.How then, did the media respond to public health officials to flatten the curve on the epidemic virus (not perfectly, not soon enough, but they did)? They didn’t appeal to, you should do this to protect strangers from getting sick. They tried but it didn’t work well enough.They did it by implying, if you touch someone, you will die almost instantly and quite horribly. And people, already frightened, embraced the feeling.People generally aren’t wearing masks and socially distancing out of long-term philanthropy and insight about resources and epidemiology. It’s happening because of the panic of self-preservation.A rational, generous, community mindset was effectively replaced by an immediate and self-focused desire to be safe. A generous hack.The selfish dolts on spring break or in bouncy castles didn’t get that memo: they feel fine, why bother being careful?A narrative of save yourself right now’ is effective in this culture. In other cultures, less industrialized but hardly less sophisticated, an alternative could be a focus on us before me.Without a doubt, short-term market needs are often efficiently filled by short-term selfish behavior. Resilience comes from a longer-term and more community-focused outlook.The question is: Once people catch the virus and get through it (as most people will) and recover (as more than 9 out of 10 will), what will replace the selfish panic?Cultural pressure is the sometimes unseen force that allows us to maintain civility. It helps us decide what to choose. People like us, do things like this.As we face the need to pay for our recovery, for a new and more resilient safety net and for the shifts that our culture demands, will we have to resort to the short-term and the selfish yet again?Pick your heroes. Whoever you look up to, my hunch is that it’s someone who took a longer and more inclusive view.We can be those heroes.  END"}
{"prompt": "Thoughts on I’m bored ###", "completion":"If you’re under 14: Good.It’s good that you’re feeling bored. Bored is an actual feeling. Bored can prompt forward motion. Bored is the thing that happens before you choose to entertain yourself. Bored is what empty space feels like, and you can use that empty space to go do something important. Bored means that you’re paying attention (no one is bored when they’re asleep.)If you’re over 14: That’s on you.As soon as you’re tired of being bored at work, at home, on lockdown, wherever, you’ll go find a challenge. You don’t have to quit your day job to be challenged, but you do have to be willing to leap, to take some responsibility, to find something that might not work.Being challenged at work is a privilege. It means that you have a chance, on someone else’s nickel, to grow. It means you can choose to matter.I’m glad you’re feeling bored, and now we’re excited to see what you’re going to go do about it.  END"}
{"prompt": "And now, what’s next? ###", "completion":"The last eight weeks have been like no other. An unfolding tragedy, unevenly distributed. An economic freeze. A media frenzy.It’s easy to be exhausted, especially since there’s still quite a lot of slog left to go.Is it too soon to wonder what’s next? And at the heart of it: how can you contribute?Average work for average people is going to be worth less than ever before.Typical employees doing typical work are going to be less respected and valued than ever before.And just as expectations are being shifted, new opportunities will arise. They always do.So what’s next? A commitment to learning and to possibility.The pandemic demonstrated, among other things, that we all have access to each other digitally. That if you want to learn something, the chance is there. That internet connections can be powerful, and that leadership is priceless.The industrial era, struggling for the last decade or two, is now officially being replaced by one based on connection and leadership and the opportunity to show up and make a difference.That’s why we’ve run 40 sessions of the altMBA and why we’re going to run another one this summer. We’re not going to wait for everything to be back to normal, because it never will, and because the best time to contribute is right now.When I launched this four years ago, I had no idea that the world would shift in this way and we’d need new voices and new leadership so much right now.I hope you’ll check it out. Today’s the very best chance to level up.  END"}
{"prompt": "A Sunday book reading ###", "completion":"Save With Stories is a community-driven fundraiser on Instagram. It features authors and others reading their books for kids on camera, all to raise money for @savethechildren and @nokidhungry.Yesterday, they posted me reading V is For Vulnerable. You can find the video here.It’s a book for adults, but it’s okay to share it with your kids as well.This book was beautifully illustrated by the extraordinary @hughcards.I hope it resonates. I still remember how powerful story time can be. And thanks for what you’re doing to contribute.  END"}
{"prompt": "Bulletins vs bulletin boards ###", "completion":"[Here’s a simple communications hack for small teams and organizations:]When times are changing and you’re adjusting on the fly, it’s tempting to send another alert.The rules at the farmer’s market, the latest schedule for a changing event, the status of a server…When I was growing up in Buffalo, they used to announce school closings on the radio. Twice an hour, we’d huddle around and listen to an endless list of schools (mine started with a W), wasting everyone’s time and emotional energy.The problem with alerts is that they don’t scale. They create noise. Every time you poke everyone with a bulletin, you’ve taken attention away with no hope of giving it back.The alternative is the bulletin board.Want to know how you did on the exam? Go look at the bulletin board. The grades will be posted when they’re ready.Want to know the latest situation before you head out? Go look at the bulletin board.Social media got everyone into the bulletin habit, but we left behind bulletin boards too quickly.And in our digital world, you don’t need to be a computer programmer to have one. Simply create a shared Google doc. It’s free and it doesn’t crash and it’s low tech. (And yes, there are many alternatives that don’t come from big companies).Give people the link to view the doc. Include it in your Facebook post or your last email on the topic. Click here to see the latest updates. Don’t worry about whether your tweet or post (a bulletin) moves down the screen, because everyone who cares already has the link to your bulletin board and you’ve trained them to check it when they want to know the status of your event or situation. It’s not a great choice for a high-traffic site, but if you’re trying to coordinate a few hundred people, it’s a lot easier than trusting social media.And you can even share editing privileges with your core team, so there’s no bottleneck for updates. You don’t need to get a programmer out of bed in the middle of the night to update the school closing list. It’s a simple thing to update the bulletin board, to keep making it more up to date and complete as your situation changes.Information on demand is way more useful than information that demands our attention at moments when we’re not interested.  END"}
{"prompt": "What brings out the best in you? ###", "completion":"What brings out the worst?One more question: Is it possible to adjust your life so that you show up more often in situations that bring out the best? Can you have an agenda, a rider or an itinerary that makes it more likely that the world around you is what you need it to be?Because if you can’t, there’s one other option: Can you change your posture so that the situations you’re in a lot bring out your best instead of your worst?Ideal situations are often rare—now more so than ever. But we can redefine ‘ideal situation’ if we choose.  END"}
{"prompt": "I tweaked a few things ###", "completion":"The easiest way to get a contribution, advice or feedback is to present something that’s 90% done.If you ask too early in the process, if you’re hoping for conceptual insights, you’ll probably be disappointed.Human nature pushes the inexperienced feedback giver to wait until you’re almost done and then to offer feedback on little things. Tactics, not strategy. Colors, not shapes.Which means that you either need to teach your team to be strategic professionals, able to give big advice early…Or create enough room in your (private) internal schedule for redoing the work after someone has ‘tweaked a few things.’  END"}
{"prompt": "New effort vs Old effort ###", "completion":"Here’s what you had to do to go to a conference in Toronto:Get a passport • Register for the event • Pack • Figure out how to get to the airport on time • Navigate the TSA • Find a hotel • Get to the event • (I left out about a hundred steps).Here’s what you had to do go to a meeting in your office:Own a car • Maintain it • Deal with public transport • Risk your life driving to the office • Make sure the dry cleaning was picked up • Navigate evil Bob in reception • (I left out another 100 steps).And here’s what you have to do to be a positive contribution on a Zoom call.The difference is that the first two are expensive, complicated and difficult processes that we’re already used to, so they don’t count.Part of the challenge of a worldwide shift is that all of us have to engage in new effort that we’re not used to. It’s nothing we asked for, and the old effort disappearing doesn’t feel like much of a benefit.But, if new effort is required, we have the chance to do what we’ve always done, which is figure out what works and to commit to it.  END"}
{"prompt": "The Fremen principle ###", "completion":"If you want to know how to work with new or limited resources, find a population that’s used to not having many alternatives.Of course Harvard and the others are terrible at distance learning. They’ve had four hundred years of in-person lectures, tenure, accreditation and a waiting list to lean on. Our tiny team at Akimbo has run circles around them online precisely because we didn’t have the advantages they do.It’s no surprise that American car companies had trouble shifting to fuel-efficient small cars, because their DNA was about wide roads, cheap gas and growing markets. The Japanese had to make do with none of that.And a home cook who’s used to the unlimited aisles of the modern supermarket isn’t sure what to do when there’s not much to choose from. An Italian grandmother is a better guide in that moment.When we have alternatives, we compromise instead of commit.Find someone who has already optimized for the reality you’re about to enter and learn from them.[The Fremen are the (possibly) fictional natives of the desert planet of Arrakis, who live with very little water.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Meeting spec (doing the minimum) ###", "completion":"Two ways of saying the same thing.If the bridge needs to hold 20,000 pound vehicles, the client isn’t interested in paying extra for you to build it to hold 30,000 pound vehicles. The spec is clear–15,000 is unacceptable, and 30,000 isn’t worth a penny extra in steel, concrete or pilings.But when we’re bringing our human skills to the work, the spec for a job might state that we need to sit at the customer service counter from 9 to 5, but because be really nice to people, is hard to quantify it can feel like an extra if we’re seeking to do as little as possible.Why do extra? After all, the industrial system has squeezed everything it can out of front-line workers. It has taken without offering much in return, stripping people of dignity and respect and treating them like cogs.But acting like a cog in return is hardly a useful form of revenge.Showing up with more than the minimum might turn the job into more than a job. When we show up because we can, when we’re extending ourselves as a matter of choice, we create space. The space to own the work, to personalize it, and to turn it into more than getting by.The current crisis is a vivid reminder of how empty a job focused on getting by really is. Because getting by is a lousy way to spend our days. Playwrights, painters and committed professionals don’t ask, how little can I get away with? They view the work as a chance to make a difference instead.Doing work we’re proud of is a fine alternative to being seen as less than human. And spending our days doing as much human work as we can is far more appealing than hoping to do as little as possible.  END"}
{"prompt": "Applying effort ###", "completion":"How will you spend your resources? If you want to open a can of tomato juice, you can squeeze the sides of the can as hard as you can, for as long as you can, but it’s unlikely to open. You can also focus all of your energy on a very tiny point and perhaps, with the right tools, make a small puncture. But it won’t help you get the juice out. What you’ll need is a can opener, focusing your force at the right sized spot with the right pressure.The same is true for the way we bring an idea to the world. One thing you could do is spam a billion people, once. Another is to identify a single individual and spend a year bringing this person just the right message, with relentless frequency.You’re probably better off with something in between.We can allocate our resources into a portfolio. Even if we don’t know precisely where to put the effort, a focus on the right categories pays off. Too often, we aim too wide (it feels more deniable). And sometimes, more rarely, we aim too narrowly.Every day, we use our resources to make change happen. Which means that every day we get to choose.  END"}
{"prompt": "Leaky roofs ###", "completion":"In many situations, a leaky roof is worse than no roof at all.If there’s no roof, we’re not surprised or disappointed if we get hit with some raindrops. But a roof that leaks has raised expectations and then failed to meet them.Promising us a roof and then breaking that promise might be worse than no roof at all.  END"}
{"prompt": "Three paths for a soloist ###", "completion":"Consider one of three paths. Which works for you? Honor the noise in your head. Make the work you believe you were born to make. Create things you can visualize but haven’t seen yet. Do it without regard for critics, the market or the math of it all. It’s your handiwork.Embrace your market. Make what it needs. Earn a seat at the table by developing an asset, and leverage it to create real value for those you serve. Price it accordingly.Stay busy. Make slightly better than average work, for less than average pricing. It’s difficult to see how you can do all three at the same time for the same kind of client. All three choices are valid, any could work for you, but it’s worth choosing.  END"}
{"prompt": "Dancing with tools ###", "completion":"How good are you at Google Sheets?Can you write a query? A filter? Do you know how to install add-on tools to trim extra cells or create a mail merge? If you wanted to learn those things, do you know how to find out how?It’s an interesting litmus test.Sheets is free. It’s not particularly difficult to use. You can explore it in private, with no fear of screwing up. And it’s widely applicable to just about any career or community work you might choose to do.The teenager across the street is far better off teaching herself Sheets than she is doing whatever busywork they’re handing her during the day.If you get good at a type of technology, you’ll find yourself using it often. On the other hand, if you decide that you’re somehow untalented at it (which is nonsense) or don’t take the time, then you’ll have sacrificed leverage and confidence that were offered to you.Of course, it’s not just Sheets, or the web, or even computers. It’s a posture of possibility when it comes to the tools we’re able to use.We can ignore the tools that we have access to. We can fear them. We can understand them.(And, after we understand them, we’re able to hire someone else to use them on our behalf.)We can even master them.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your defining moment ###", "completion":"It’s easy to wait for it. The movies have taught us that when the music swells and the chips are down, that’s when leaders arrive and when heroes are made.It turns out, that’s not how it works.Our work is what happens in all the moments. Leadership doesn’t simply appear when the script announces it does: it is the hard work of showing up when we’re not expected to, of seeing what’s possible when few are willing to believe.Your defining moment is whenever you decide it is, and you get a new chance to lead every day.Two months ago, we ran our first session of Rising Talent, a special session of the altMBA by and for emerging leaders at Fortune 500 companies.Our month-long sprint connected senior leaders from SAP, Starbucks, Dunkin’ Brands, Citi, General Mills, Lululemon, NBA, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Adobe, Audible, Barclays, Chipotle, Delta, Trane Technologies, Frost Bank, Kellogg Company, Kraft Heinz, MetLife, Qualcomm, Shopify, Slack and Warby Parker. Even though the world was already turning upside down, this extraordinary cohort showed up and did the work, even as they were contributing at a high level at their day jobs.The results reinforced what we’ve been saying at the altMBA for the last five years. Possibility is where you find it. We each have more to offer than the world expects. And growth is something we’re capable of, as soon as we’re committed to seeing what we can contribute.The secret of our workshops is the level of commitment that our students bring. Even in times of turmoil. Enrollment opens the door to action instead of compliance.Our current worldwide tragedy is a slog, but it will have another side. And the organizations that thrive will be the ones that don’t rely on top-down management to go forward. It’s peer-to-peer leadership and innovation that produces resilience, and leadership that turns any moment into a moment where we can make things better.Ishita Gupta has written more about the Rising Talent altMBA here.  END"}
{"prompt": "Craftspeople and time ###", "completion":"Tell us when you’re going to finish.Tell us if you fall behind.Don’t make us ask.It’s difficult for a small organization or a dedicated craftsperson to run an operation as punctually as a large bureaucracy. After all, the bureaucracy exists mainly to be sure that deadlines are honored and variances are not exceeded.Your customers are aware of this. It’s one reason that they chose you–because you’re doing the work yourself, you’re a person, not an industry.Don’t hide this unless you can hide it completely.It’s amazing how much slack people will give you if you’re proactive about what you see and what you know. No need to make promises you can’t keep, and no need to hide from the promises you’ve made.We’re buying the process from you, not just what you’re making.  END"}
{"prompt": "A small business isn’t simply a little version of a big business ###", "completion":"Fewer meetings, fewer resources, fewer constraints.The biggest advantage that a small business has is that the owner can look customers in the eye. And vice versa.Instead of policies, groupthink and leverage, the way forward for a small business might be the very thing that fueled you in the start: find out what people need and help them get it. Right away.It’s never been easy to be a small business and it’s even more difficult right now. But resilience and flexibility go together.The first rule remains: figure out what people need and bring it to them.  END"}
{"prompt": "A community of practice ###", "completion":"Learning happens mostly outside the classroom.Learning is the difficult work of experiencing incompetence on our way to mastery.And learning opens the door to identity.When someone says, I am a nurse, they’ve taken their learning and certification, combined it with their livelihood and announced it as their identity.And this all happens from community. The standards and practices, the support, the status roles. People like us do things like this.If you’re a Maine wooden-boat builder, you do things a certain way. The ocean is the same water that a boat builder in Manila would put their boat on, but the boat is different because the community is different.Even the way we think about formal education, accreditation and contribution is driven by the community of practice we are part of.Communities have often been an accident of birth. Built by geography and parentage, you established your identity and your learning long before you went to school. Now, of course, this is changing.Communities of practice have been written about for decades, but they’re being transformed and amplified by the persistent and permeable nature of the net. When we surround ourselves with a community, it’s inevitable that it changes our identity.Too often, we choose our community by default. The social network sucks us in, or we’re picked for a certain dodgeball team or cadre at school. We have the chance, though, to do it with intention instead.I’ve come to realize that the circles that we’re building at Akimbo are in fact communities of practice. A powerful, productive identity that people can choose to seek out. Click here to see a preview our next one–for people who are ready to write.And here’s a bonus video, a short rant for the Akimbo podcast that I filmed last summer. In whichever hemisphere you’re in, enjoy the new season and the possibility it brings. Our latest launches in a week or two. Find out more here.  END"}
{"prompt": "Waiting and worrying ###", "completion":"It’s easy for us to choose to worry. The world is upside down, the slog continues, a tragedy unevenly but widely distributed.Worry takes a lot of effort. And worry, unlike focus, learning or action, accomplishes nothing of value.And, at the same time, due to the time-horizon of the pandemic, it’s also tempting for us to simply wait. To wait for things to get back to normal. But all the time we’re spending waiting (for a normal that is unlikely to be just like it was) is time we’re not spending learning, leading and connecting.Waiting is, sort of by definition, a waste of time. But time is scarce, so wasting it is a shameful act.If we decided to simply reduce our waiting and worrying allocation by 50%, just imagine how much we could discover, how many skills we could learn, how dramatically attitudes could shift.We can still wait (even though time will pass either way). And we can still worry (even though it doesn’t do any good). But perhaps we can figure out how to do it less.  END"}
{"prompt": "The simple cure for writer’s block ###", "completion":"Write.People with writer’s block don’t have a problem typing. They have a problem living with bad writing, imperfect writing, writing that might expose something that they fear.The best way to address this isn’t to wait to be perfect. Because if you wait, you’ll never get there.The best way to deal with it is to write, and to realize that your bad writing isn’t fatal.Like all skills, we improve with practice and with feedback.[Mark your calendars: The Creative’s Workshop is coming back in August. Check out this page for details and to get updates.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Choices ###", "completion":"How will we use our gifts? What difficult choices will we make–when it might be easier to hide?Will we waste our advantages and insulation?Will inertia be our guide, or will we follow our passions?Will we follow dogma, or will we leap forward and be original, generous and helpful?Will we choose a life of ease, or a life of service and adventure?Will we wilt under criticism, or will we follow our convictions?Will we bluff it out when we’re wrong, or will we apologize?Will we be clever at the expense of others, or will we choose to be kind?A cynic, or a builder?And we get to decide again every single day.[PS please consider this session of The Podcasting Workshop. It’s open now for registration.]  END"}
{"prompt": "How many moons? ###", "completion":"How many moons in our solar system? With 8 or so planets, how many moons in total?My guess, when challenged, was 22. I figured Earth had one, rounded up, etc.It turns out that it’s more than 200. Saturn alone has more than 80 moons.That’s a common mistake. We make it all the time. We assume that our neighborhood is like every neighborhood, that our situation and experience is universal.That’s rarely true.Embracing that on the path to empathy is a powerful step forward.  END"}
{"prompt": "The stolen address book ###", "completion":"I used to ask, If you stole Steven Spielberg’s address book, would it help you get a movie made?The point was that even if you had the phone numbers and names, calling them up and saying you’d stolen them wasn’t worth very much. The data has no value without trust and connection.Now, twenty years later, all the address books have been stolen. Everyone has all the data. Identifying the right people (or spamming everyone) is easy and cheap.Which makes the point even more urgent than ever: Without trust and connection, access to data is worthless.  END"}
{"prompt": "Useful explanations of reality ###", "completion":"If we want to understand what’s going on around us, it’s helpful to be able to formulate a resilient story, one that holds up to scrutiny and allows us to make an impact.That story shouldn’t change based on who’s in charge.Which means that we don’t have to ask the head of the chemistry department why a reaction occurred. The theory works fine even if they’re not around.  END"}
{"prompt": "Everybody else ###", "completion":"It’s natural to believe that everyone else is as confident, assured, long-term thinking and generous as you are on your very best day.But that’s unlikely. Because everyone else is probably not having their best day at the same time.Once we realize that the world around us is filled with people who are each wrestling with what we’re wrestling with (and more), compassion is a lot easier to find.  END"}
{"prompt": "Should schools reward skills or talent? ###", "completion":"Talent is something you’re born with.Skill is something you earn.Skill comes from commitment and practice and self-discipline. The skill of earning skills is a lifelong advantage.Without a doubt, encouraging kids to leverage their talents is a skill. And yet…Who gets to be the center of the kids’ volleyball team–the tall kid or the one who practices the most diligently and brings the most teamwork to the game?Who gets an ‘A’ in math–the one who can breeze through the tests or the student who asks intelligent questions and challenges the assumptions?Who gets into a fancy college…You get the idea.Leaders talk about developing real skills and encouraging people to develop into their full potential, but too often, we take the short-term path of betting on raw talent instead. And of course, what looks like raw talent might not be. It could simply be our confusion about first impressions compared to the power of commitment, enrollment and persistence.  END"}
{"prompt": "Voices vs. noise ###", "completion":"If it’s not relevant, it’s noise. If it’s untrusted, unwelcome or selfish, it’s noise.But your contribution isn’t noise. Not for the right people, at the right time.The internet isn’t a mass medium. The voices online are not for everyone, it’s not the Super Bowl or M*A*S*H or even the nightly news. Nobody reaches much more than 1% of the audience on any given day.But…That tiny slice that does want to hear from you, that needs to hear from you, that would miss you if you don’t speak up–for that audience, you’re not noise. You’re essential.That’s why we built the Podcasting Workshop with Alex DiPalma. Enrollment launches today.Not because we need more podcasts. We don’t.Because we need your podcast.  END"}
{"prompt": "What’s at the front of the line? ###", "completion":"A study of behavior at breakfast buffets showed that the first item in the buffet was taken by 75% of the diners (even when the order of the items was reversed) and that two-thirds of all the food taken came from the first three items, regardless of how long the buffet is.This means that optimizing marketers usually put the things they most want to sell first.And that smart consumers benefit from adopting patience as they consider what’s on offer.Of course, this game theory applies to a lot more than food.  END"}
{"prompt": "Picky vs difficult ###", "completion":"Picky people have consistent preferences and standards.Difficult people change their preferences frequently, and often in response to who is presenting to them or the mood they’re in.It’s pretty easy to figure out which makes for a better client or colleague.  END"}
{"prompt": "Weasel decisions ###", "completion":"One way to make a decision with a team or a partner is to clearly make a decision. Have a budget, do the math, lay out the risks and the options and decide with intent.The other method is to weasel your way forward.Act as if.Be presumptive.Hide relevant facts or conceal your fears.Avoid talking about the real issues, figuring that you’ll figure it all out as you go.When you are uncomfortable with here, and it’s really tempting to want to be there, it’s easy to weasel your way forward. It feels urgent and appropriate. It rarely is.  END"}
{"prompt": "What will you do with the time you save? ###", "completion":"Ordering in instead of cooking.Working from home instead of commuting.Using a dishwasher instead of the sink…All that time saved. Now that you’ve got the time back, you get to choose what’s truly important to you.How will you spend it?[Time spent on TV and social media has gone up every year of my lifetime].  END"}
{"prompt": "The do-it-yourself at-home surgery kit ###", "completion":"Here’s a rusty knife.Here’s a video I saw on YouTube once.Here are some instructions I read on Quora…Okay, how hard can it be?Actually, it might be very hard. Actually, expertise has value. Actually, just because someone said it on the internet doesn’t mean it’s true. Or useful.Experts aren’t always right. But I’d rather live in a building built by an expert, fly in a plane designed by an expert and yes, have surgery done by an expert.Even barbers get trained.  END"}
{"prompt": "The non-urgent advance ###", "completion":"Not a retreat, but a chance to advance.Set up a zoom room. By yourself, perhaps. Weird but do-able. Or possibly, bring a coach or a colleague. But only one person.No phones. No internet besides Zoom.Spreadsheets.Pads.Spend four hours in isolation, with nothing to do but figuring out what’s scaring you and what you’ve been avoiding.Spend half a day figuring out the difference between urgent and important.If you’re too busy to do that, it’s probably because you are spending too much time on the urgent.Forward!  END"}
{"prompt": "Deliberately lo-fi ###", "completion":"The resolution of communication has been on a downward slide for more than a decade.Careful hand-tuned typography shifts to endless Helvetica, poorly kerned.Face to face goes to landline phone call goes to cell phone call, goes to yelling into a speakerphone goes to lazy Zoom etiquette.Music goes from live to vinyl to mp3.Much of this is driven by the need to squeeze more and more stuff into a narrow pipe combined with a cultural desire for more instead of better.But…It will flip.It always does.Because better is better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Esprit de l’escalier is overrated ###", "completion":"The quick comeback. The clever repartee. The ability to, in the moment, say precisely what needs to be said.As the world gets faster, more of us feel the regret of the staircase. The perfect remark, often cutting, comes to us just a little too late.Don’t worry about it.Because as the world keeps getting faster, there’s actually a shortage of thoughtful, timeless ideas that are worth sharing an hour or a week later.  END"}
{"prompt": "Defending the status quo ###", "completion":"Random House isn’t in the bookstore business, they’re in the business of publishing ideas that matter.Audi isn’t in the gasoline business. They sell personal transportation.You’re not in the business of having a job with an office. You are willing to trade time and effort in exchange for money and a chance to do work you’re proud of.When the world changes, it’s tempting to fight hard to maintain the status quo that feels safe.And so, utility companies lobby to ease emission standards, when they would be just fine if the standards were tightened. And so tech companies fight against new formats and new forms of exchange instead of leading with them. And of course, powerful cultural forces fight to preserve their hierarchies instead of figuring out how to thrive with new ones.What we want and how we believe we get it are often two different things.  END"}
{"prompt": "Money costs money ###", "completion":"Because there’s a cost to using it on one thing instead of another.And because the person who invests money has choices, and often chooses the choice that works best for them.Most people would be happy with a hotel that generates a profit of a thousand dollars a day. But if the hotel cost $50,000,000 to build, you’re bust.Time costs money too.That’s not the same as saying time is money, which it isn’t. Time is magnificent, hard to stockpile and impossible to recover.But it still costs. Which means that it’s worth considering whether something worthwhile comes back for your investment and your effort.  END"}
{"prompt": "Keys on the ground ###", "completion":"If you find a key and you don’t know what lock it will fit, you haven’t found much.It’s easy to get excited about half the system, but real change and real benefit only happen when both pieces are working together.  END"}
{"prompt": "Varieties of disbelief ###", "completion":"Everyone, without exception, has found some things to not believe in. Things that are demonstrably true that we just don’t want to accept.A bit like a fingerprint, each person’s pattern of disbelief is probably unique. You might believe that water is made of atoms, but that the moon is made of cheese. It’s hard to predict.But the interesting question is: What has to happen for you to change your mind? What standard of proof, from what source, is sufficient for us to accept that something we’re sure wasn’t true, is true?That’s a great place to begin.  END"}
{"prompt": "Famous colleges ###", "completion":"Parents can do their children a favor if, from an early age, kids hear them say famous college instead of good college.Because there’s very little data that shows that colleges with big football programs or lots of Nobel prize winners are actually good at doing what a college should do for an undergraduate.If you want to spend the time and the money and the debt to go to a famous college, that’s your choice.But don’t be confused into believing that a famous one is a good one.And in this back-to-school moment, it’s smart to not only consider a gap year filled with intention as a way to engage with the world, but to think about what we’re actually buying when we buy a degree from a famous college.Education and learning continue to diverge. In-person, real-time learning is too expensive, too scarce and rarely as effective as it could be, and we’re discovering that a commitment to life-long learning is more important than a four-year sabbatical that costs too much and delivers too little. And good colleges are in a position to do something about this, while the ones that are merely famous will fight hard to maintain their status quo.Scarcity isn’t always needed to create value.The pandemic has created a significant shift in perception, and the repercussions are going to be felt by colleges for years to come–many of them are going to be refactored, restructured or disappear.  END"}
{"prompt": "Date certain ###", "completion":"One of the most expensive things a service business or freelancer can do is promise that work will be done by a certain day. Which is something we need to do, of course, but we should charge appropriately. It’ll be done soon, should be way cheaper than, It’ll be done at exactly 11 am on Tuesday.And one of the most important things we can do to focus our energy and commitment is be prepared to promise a date certain. It sharpens everything.  END"}
{"prompt": "Systemic problems ###", "completion":"… demand systemic solutions.First, we have to pay attention.Then we need to acknowledge that a solution is possible.And then we need to commit. To the long, persistent road to altering the status quo.The world is forcing us to pay attention to lingering problems more urgently than ever before. Real change on issues of dignity, justice and health are long overdueUrgent problems are too important to earn only a moment of our attention. Important projects demand that we keep showing up to make the change we seek. Showing up and showing up, at the root and at every turn, consistently working toward systemic solutions.When we think about the problems we’ve solved as a community, this is the way it always happens. Making things better, over time, with focus. Persistent commitment doesn’t lower the urgency of the moment, it acknowledges it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Destinations, risks and journeys ###", "completion":"Where are you headed? The choices you’re making, the effort, the sacrifices—where is the destination?We make choices every day about our destination. And because of those choices, we go on a journey.Along that journey, we take risks but we also experience an internal narrative about those risks.And so, destinations, risks (perceived and actual) and journeys define our lives.It’s possible you’ve come to the conclusion that the destination you’ve chosen isn’t for you. That being a pop star, a successful VP of accounting or a receptionist with a secure position isn’t a life you’d like to lead.But don’t confuse that with the journey. Maybe you’d be happy with the pot of gold at the end of your rainbow, but it’s entirely possible you don’t want to suffer the discomfort and indignities and effort it will take to get to that destination, that you’d like an easier path. You’ll happily take the destination but the truth is, the journey is too arduous.And don’t confuse that with your imagining of the risks along the way. It might be that you want the destination, that you are willing to put up with (or even delight in) the journey but your narrative of the risks and dangers are just too much to handle.When we conflate the destination with the journey and with our narrative of the risks, we have no hope of improving any of the three. Instead, we often pushed to throw out all three at once or embrace them all. But it’s possible, with effort and planning, to make the journey more palatable or the risks feel more tolerable.The destination isn’t the journey. And our narrative of the actual risks is up to us.  END"}
{"prompt": "Small adjustments ###", "completion":"Even better than buying a new bicycle is adjusting the seat on your existing bike properly.That’s because the height of the seat changes your power. It’s the point of maximum leverage, responsible for aligning all of the forces you bring to bear on the process.When we begin to think about our work, we tend to focus on the largest structures–what it looks like from the outside. But as we engage with the problem at hand, it turns out that our impact changes based on how we stand, what we believe and the ways we interact with the systems right in front of us.Get the strategy right, then implement small changes, repeated with persistence and generosity.  END"}
{"prompt": "Far away is difficult ###", "completion":"Humans are bad at understanding things that are very far away in scale or time.Atoms aren’t actually made up of tiny particles that are like rocks, but smaller. And planets aren’t simply very large billiard balls. We can only understand the behavior of things big and small by realizing that they’re not actually different versions of something of the size that we can easily see.Things that happened a million years ago are hard to visualize, and we can’t reliably make many guesses about how the world is going to be a thousand years from now (and even fifty is difficult–lately, four weeks is a stretch).Physics is straightforward–except when it comes to things that are very small and those that are very large, when it all gets weird. Different rules apply.Extrapolation is far easier to claim than it is to do. That person across the counter or the web from you probably has very different experiences, beliefs and expectations than you do. Starting with your experience and assuming it matches their own is a trap.Most everyone is very far away. And most feelings act like they are very small (or very large).  END"}
{"prompt": "The relativity of time ###", "completion":"Two things are true simultaneously:We’re running out of time.We have too much time on our hands.How can we be at a deadline and bored at the same time?We always are.Our experience of time relates to engagement, fear, opportunity and the culture.  END"}
{"prompt": "From education to learning ###", "completion":"Education is the hustle for a credential. It exchanges compliance for certification. An institution can educate you.Learning can’t be done to you. It is a choice and it requires active participation, not simple adherence to metrics.Learning is the only place to find resilience, possibility and contribution, because learning is a lifelong skill that isn’t domain dependent.Most of the learning moments in our lives are accidental or random. A situation presents itself and if we’re lucky, we learn something from it.We built the altMBA to make learning intentional.The last session of the year is in October, and applications are due tomorrow, August 25th.You’ll be surrounded by a cohort of others, each on their way to leveling up and moving forward. We only do it four times a year, only with a few hundred people, always with our alumni coaches on board.I hope you’ll check it out. Learning is our best way forward, because learning creates community.  END"}
{"prompt": "Profit taking is lazy ###", "completion":"Once an organization reaches scale, particularly if it feels like a monopoly, it’s tempting to take profits.This means less investment, fewer staff and a lot less care. Those things are expensive. Easier to simply keep the money.And those things involve emotional effort. Easier to simply point to the bottom line, as if that’s the point.Lazy managers dump the emotional labor on overworked frontline staff instead of creating systems that create value for everyone.And lazy shareholders reward quarterly earnings instead of understanding the long-term ramifications of failing to serve customers.We don’t care, we don’t have to, is often the last slogan once-great institutions have emblazoned on their door.  END"}
{"prompt": "Situational gravity ###", "completion":"All of us are good at rationalizing. It helps us process the world, navigate our choices and live with ourselves.But gravity doesn’t care if you got a lot of sleep last night or not. It’s still the same amount of force.The pavement doesn’t care if you always wear a helmet on your bike, except just this one time when you didn’t, because you were having a video taken.Melanoma doesn’t care that you always wear sun screen, except that one day when you were really busy and couldn’t go back to the house for it.Outside forces don’t care about the situation, because they have no awareness or memory. They simply are.Newton’s law doesn’t care that you were really distracted and that’s why you weren’t wearing a seatbelt, and the virus that infected your friend doesn’t care about why that person in the office decided not to wear a mask, either.People are very good at stories. That’s our core technology. Everything else in the world, though, has no interest in them.  END"}
{"prompt": "Lottery thinking ###", "completion":"Ironically enough, lottery thinking is a chronic problem.Lotteries of all sorts grab our attention and change our agenda.A lottery is an almost random event, a longshot, one that promises to change your life (for the better if it’s a money thing, for the worse if it’s medical, etc.).The simple and immediate nature of the outcome is an essential part of the lottery’s power.Getting hit by lightning, finding the perfect job, having a djinni grant three wishes–these are all lotteries.We spent billions of dollars keeping liquids out of carry-on luggage for no rational reason. It was simply a negative lottery, one that momentarily got the public’s attention and then became part of a narrative about control.There’s a mismatch between how vivid an outcome is and the odds that make that outcome likely or important to our daily plans. High media attention plus sudden change plus low odds tend to focus our minds more than the opposite.The problem with lottery thinking is that it takes us away from thinking about the chronic stuff instead. The pervasive, consistent challenge that will respond to committed effort.PS relevant aside: The other day I was passed by someone who was headed toward me, at high speed, in the middle of the street. He was on an electric skateboard. He had on a face mask, of course, but it was askew. He wasn’t wearing a helmet and he was vaping, all at the same time. Go figure.  END"}
{"prompt": "Professional wrestling ###", "completion":"It’s a theater of status.Professional wrestling isn’t about wrestling, of course. It’s about who’s up and who’s down. The stated rules are there to be broken by some of the participants, and it’s not professional in any useful sense related to the sport of wrestling.And the metaphor is powerful in many areas of life.But we can’t understand the metaphor without understanding the forms of status that are on offer.There is the status of affiliation. This is about belonging, about knowing and living with the rules. It’s about weaving together the culture and this affiliation leads to a form of popularity.And then there is the status of dominance. This is about winning at any cost, cheating and subjugating. It’s about unraveling the culture in service of just one aim–victory over the others.Professional wrestling creates tension between the two forms of status. We know that we all benefit from affiliation, but often are swayed by the avenging dominator if we see ourselves in them.The theater of status happens in our daily lives. It’s who sits where at the meeting, or who gets to announce that the Zoom session is over. It’s the insurgent and the status quo. It’s the dramatic back and forth between someone who seeks power and someone who is tired of being told what to do.The successful affiliator doesn’t seek to out-dominate the dominator. Instead, affiliators weave together enough persistent community pressure to get things back on track. And sooner or later, people realize that the triumph of the dominator, while it can be painful, is short-lived.  END"}
{"prompt": "Here I am ###", "completion":"When we say, here, I made this, we’re not seeking credit, we’re taking responsibility.To be seen, to learn, to own it, to do it better next time.Hiding is too easy. And hiding is a trap.  END"}
{"prompt": "What time is your flight? ###", "completion":"Why do cab drivers ask this question?It’s not like they can get to the airport any faster.It simply serves to create tension where no tension is helpful.There are a hundred ways to introduce tension into a conversation. It’s worth doing it with intent, when it serves a function.  END"}
{"prompt": "The magic of trade-offs ###", "completion":"If you make a laptop more powerful, the battery life will suffer and it will get heavier too.Trade-offs.If you make a plane bigger, it won’t land at every airport, and it will cost more to fly, even if you don’t sell all the seats.Another set of trade-offs.Good engineers don’t whine about trade-offs, because they realize that they’re the entire point.If there were no trade-offs, we wouldn’t need their help, there would be no interesting problems worth solving.In our work and our lives, we can train ourselves to say, oh, good, an interesting trade-off.  END"}
{"prompt": "One at a time, over and over ###", "completion":"It’s 2018, a special night out. The restaurant shouldn’t have been as disappointing as it was. The room was beautiful, the staff was trying hard, the menu was ambitious–and yet it fell flat.I realized that the problem is one that many of us face:All shift long, there’s a lot to do. Another plate to fire, another customer to serve, another plate to clean. And yet this customer doesn’t care about all of that. For any given diner, this may very well be the only time he or she will ever eat here. For any given diner, this dish, this interaction–that’s the only chance you’re going to get.It doesn’t matter to them that you have 100 tops to serve in the next hour. It doesn’t matter that the last week’s worth of customers all left happy. To this customer, there’s just this one time.Over and over.Just this one time.Over and over.  END"}
{"prompt": "When can we talk about our systems? ###", "completion":"Your team is down by a few points and the game is almost over. What play should you call?[When can we talk about the system of drafting and training that got your team to this situation in the first place?]Your back hurts and you think you need surgery to help with the pain.[When can we talk about the technique you use when you go running every day?]Your employee shows up late regularly. How can you get them to care more?[When can we talk about your hiring and leadership approaches?]There’s racial injustice and unfairness all around us.[Can we talk about persistent indoctrination around caste?]You just had an argument with your brother. What’s the best way for him to see that you’re right?[When can we talk about the narratives your family has developed for generations?]Universities and local schools are in crisis with testing in disarray and distant learning ineffective…[When can we talk about what school is for?]It’s comfortable to ignore the system, to assume it is as permanent as the water surrounding your goldfish. But the fact that we have these tactical problems is all the evidence we need to see that something is causing them, and that spending time on the underlying structure could make a difference.In a crisis, there’s maximum attention. And in a crisis, we often discard any pretense of caring about systems and resilience and focus only on how to get back to normal. This is precisely why normal is what normal is, because we fight to get back to it.Changing the system changes everything. And it might be even less work than pouring water on today’s tactical emergency.  END"}
{"prompt": "What does shortly mean? ###", "completion":"When a client or customer asks when a project is going to be done, an answer offered might be, soon or shortly.Frustration ensues.It ensues because shortly, means: I’m not sure and I don’t want to be responsible and you shouldn’t ask. It creates little in the way of connection, and doesn’t project confidence, authority or even care.Shortly is a one-word way to say, go away.The alternative is to seek to understand and to work to be understood.If the customer is double-parked, a better answer might be, it will definitely be less than ten minutes, give me your phone number and I’ll call you the moment it’s done.If the engagement manager is trying to juggle priorities and dependencies, a better response might be, would it make things easier if we could narrow down the delivery date to a two-or-three day span?And if the client is simply curious to understand why she hasn’t heard from you and whether you’ve got this under control, perhaps the answer is, the dilithium crystals shorted out, the new shipment is promised for Monday and in the past, it has taken two weeks after arrival for us to complete the testing.It might not be done, but confidence is restored.You sell what you sell, but you also sell the story we tell ourselves about your relationship with the work (and with us).  END"}
{"prompt": "Dancing with belief ###", "completion":"All of us believe things that might be inconsistent, not based on how the real world actually works or not shared by others. That’s what makes us human.There are some questions we can ask ourselves about our beliefs that might help us create the change we seek:Is it working?If your belief is working for you, if it’s helping you navigate a crazy world and find solace, and if it’s not hurting anyone else, it’s doing what it’s supposed to do. Often, beliefs are about finding human connection and a way to tell ourselves about our place in the world, not as an accurate predictive insight as to what’s actually happening. And beliefs are almost always about community, about being part of something.Is it helpful?Air traffic controllers and meteorologists rarely believe that the earth is flat. It’s a belief that would get in the way of being competent at their work. If your beliefs are getting in the way of your work, of your health or the health of those around you, or of your ability to be a contributing citizen, it might be worth examining why you have them and how they got there. Did you decide to have these beliefs or did someone with an agenda that doesn’t match yours promote them?Is it true?True in the sense that it’s falsifiable, verifiable, testable and predictive. Falsifiable means that the belief is specific enough that something contrary to the belief could be discovered (there are no orange swans is a falsifiable belief, because all we need to do is find one orange swan). It’s not necessary for a belief to be scientifically true, in fact, it undermines the very nature of belief to require evidence. Once there’s evidence, then whatever is true is true, whether or not you believe it.Do you need it to be true?Which means that much of what we do to somehow prove our beliefs are true is wasted time and effort. If a belief is helping you make your way through the world, if it acts as a placebo and a balm and a rubric, then that’s sufficient. The problems occur when some people use our beliefs to manipulate us, when they prevent us from accomplishing our goals or contributing to the well being of those around us.What would change your mind?If we decide that our belief is actually true, we owe it to ourselves to be clear about what would have to happen for us to realize that it’s not. One of the frustrating things about conspiracies and modern memes is that as soon as they’re examined or contradicted, they’re simply replaced with a new variation. It’s one thing to change beliefs because the scientific method shows us a more clear view of what’s happening, it’s totally different to retreat to ever more unrelated stories in the face of reality. Sometimes, it’s easier for people to amend their belief with one more layer of insulation than it is to acknowledge how the world is likely to work.  END"}
{"prompt": "Crossing from the early adopters to a larger group ###", "completion":"I’ve blogged many times about the chasm.That’s Geoffrey Moore’s term for the gap between the small part of the market populated with people who like to go first, and the larger group of people who want to get involved with something that’s proven, popular and effective.The early adopters ask, is it new?The early majority ask, did it work? and perhaps, what’s everyone else doing?Longtime readers of this blog know that I do my work for early adopters. The smallest viable audience is sufficient to make an impact, and it allows me to focus on the people who are enrolled in the journey forward.But if you delight the early adopters, they spread the word. That is how the chasm is crossed–not with fancy ads or clever hype, but because the people who are engaged do the generous work of telling the others.We’re launching the first lessons of the tenth edition of The Marketing Seminar this week. With more than 10,000 alumni, it’s the most popular workshop on the Akimbo platform. And it works. That’s why the 8,000 people who took it after the initial launch decided to join in. Not everyone goes first. Almost no one does. That’s how our culture changes–when the few early adopters tell the others. And so each of us has to persist and continue to show up in the marketplace, doing the work and earning the trust of people who don’t get a thrill out of going first.People don’t show up when you launch.They show up when they’re ready.  END"}
{"prompt": "Absolute value ###", "completion":"It’s time for the annual window painting competition in my little town. Store owners allow kids to have a 2 foot by 4 foot piece of window to paint a scary/funny/punny Halloween billboard, and the winners get a certificate.And every year, parents not only help, they often take over and do all the work.The thing is: Not one of these entries, ever, has been the best in the world. None has been perfect or even worthy of hanging in a gallery. It’s not a worldwide absolute competition. It’s relative.Relative to what you’re capable of.You’re not running the race against everyone else. More often than not, you’re simply running it against yourself.[And as long as we’re thinking about the Grateful Pumpkin and seasonal reasons to be thankful, a reminder that in the US, Thanksgiving is in three weeks. The annual Thanksgiving Reader is available for free download and easy at-home printing. Designed by Alex Peck, he and I are offering it to families so that we can create a new tradition. This year more than ever, even if it’s by Zoom.]Don’t eat cheap chocolate!  END"}
{"prompt": "A/B/C and the problem with skipping a step ###", "completion":"Striving to be asleep is a difficult leap. On the other hand, committing to lying still is do-able. Lying still makes it more likely you’ll get to the next step.Hoping to grow your business by word of mouth by willing your customers to talk about you isn’t nearly as productive as making something worth talking about.Skipping a step is frustrating and usually futile.  END"}
{"prompt": "The successful scientist ###", "completion":"The scientific method is the most powerful invention humans have ever created. It’s not just for people in white coats and in labs. The scientific method has changed what we wear, what we eat, the health of our families, the way we earn a living–the world as we know it is a result of a simple process of hypothesis, testing and explanation.Unfortunately, school and other systems in our world focus on just one or two of the elements necessary to do it well. Know the rules, maxims and outcomes that came before. Do the reading, score well on the test.Understand the thinking behind these rules, so you can dive deeper and either change the rules or expand on them.Do tests that others haven’t thought of or that people don’t think will work. Intentionally create falsifiable hypotheses, knowing that you might be wrong, and then go test them.Publish your results so that others can examine your work and improve it. Show your work. Invite correction and improvement.Explain what you did clearly so that it becomes part of the canon, so it can be used by others, until it’s replaced by something even more useful. There are very few contentious arguments in our world today that couldn’t be more quickly resolved if all involved were willing to act in good faith and work their way through the steps together.Because if you seek to lead or to change minds, if you’re working for better, then you’re a scientist.  END"}
{"prompt": "All anecdote and no data ###", "completion":"That’s a criticism, of course. A report, study or testimony that’s all anecdote with no data carries little in the way of actionable information.On the other hand, if you want to change people’s minds, all data and no anecdote isn’t going to get you very far.We act on what we understand, we understand what fits into our worldview and we remember what we act on.  END"}
{"prompt": "Back in the tube ###", "completion":"There are two kinds of mistakes.One is the sort where failure is not noticeable because failure means that you didn’t engage with an audience. If you do an art show and no one comes, no one realizes that your art show failed.The other is harder to walk away from. You can’t put the toothpaste back in the tube. When you engineer collateralized debt obligations that merge together mortgage streams, inextricably linking the healthy ones with the others, it’s a mistake with real consequences.Confusing the two types of errors is a recipe for tragedy. If we can figure out how to organize and plan for the first type of resilient failure, it’s far easier to experiment.  END"}
{"prompt": "Misgivings ###", "completion":"If you’re not having any second thoughts at all, it’s probably because you’re not thinking it through enough.The hallmark of the true believer is that there’s no room for judgment. For everyone else, misgivings are a sign that you’re carefully considering the problem at hand.  END"}
{"prompt": "Popular vs. good ###", "completion":"They’re not the same.We often strive to have both, but that’s unlikely. The price of having one almost certainly involves losing the other. We often end up compromising something to get both and fail.Better to have one than neither.  END"}
{"prompt": "The thing about sunk costs ###", "completion":"Tomorrow is another opportunity.There are thirty people over there who are just waiting for you to help connect them, lead them or make things better. But if you’re still defending the stuck project over here, the one you put so much into, you won’t be able to show up for them.Customers, partners, clients and students who need your voice or your product aren’t going to benefit from it because you’re working so hard to dig yourself out of a previous hole, a situation that is now harder than ever to work your way through.It’s easy to focus on the problem right in front of us, and to decide that this problem, and only this problem, is the problem for us to solve. But there’s a cost to everything, and the opportunity lost when you’re doing this is just as real, even when you don’t notice it.Of course, we don’t create contribution by flitting from one thing to another whenever things get difficult. But we also sell ourselves short (and harm the people we’d be able to serve) if we’re unable to quit a project that’s gone sideways.What happened yesterday already happened. It’s a gift and an asset from your previous self. You don’t have to accept if you don’t want to.  END"}
{"prompt": "Big business vs. small business ###", "completion":"Small companies create almost all the jobs. They are the insurgents, the agents of change.Big companies are a backbone, reliable providers of goods and services. Big companies operate at a scale that most of us can’t even imagine.The two points of view often conflict. And each can learn from the other.Net neutrality is an argument between freedom of innovation by small business vs. control from big business.Campaign finance reform is an argument against big companies and their leaders buying the outcomes of elections.It’s not always about capitalism vs. the alternative. It’s often about the status quo vs. what’s next.Worth noting: A small business is not a big business that hasn’t grown up yet. It’s different. A small business has an owner, someone who can make decisions without meetings, who can listen to customers and who can embrace the work at hand.If you run a small business, I hope you’ll check out the new workshop from my friend and colleague Ramon Ray. The folks at Akimbo are working with Ramon to help connect small business people on their journey to making a bigger impact. It works better together.  END"}
{"prompt": "That’s not what I meant ###", "completion":"Disagreements among people who mean well usually begin with that emotion.You meant to say something or agree to something, but the other side didn’t hear it that way.That’s enough for a customer to walk away forever. That’s enough for a lawsuit. Because denying the experience of the other person doesn’t open the door for re-connection.Forward motion is possible if we can extend the sentence to, That’s not what I meant, but that must be what you heard, how do we fix this? Will you help me make things right again?If we can agree on intent, it’s a lot easier to figure out how to move forward.  END"}
{"prompt": "The monopoly distinction ###", "completion":"At enlightened companies, leaders are smart enough to ask, how do we make things better for our customers? They realize that this simple ratchet leads to loyalty, word of mouth and more customers.At monopolies or companies that seek to act like them, the question is, how do we make things better for us?  END"}
{"prompt": "The persistence of hierarchy and status roles ###", "completion":"REM was one of the most respected indy rock bands. You’d think that a group that somehow managed to thread the needle between whatever authentic means to them and huge popular success could walk away from traditional measures of who’s up and who’s not…In a long-ago Rolling Stone article, lead singer Michael Stipe said that he had never heard a song from Mariah Carey and in fact had just learned how to say her name. There’s a difference between focusing on your lane and denigrating the others in your field.In the same article, bandmate Michael Mills expresses disappointment that even though they recorded at Prince’s studio in Minneapolis, he never stopped by to say hello or even invite them to the party on Friday.Turtles all the way down, turtles all the way up.High school persists.It’s possible to use the status hierarchy as a sort of fuel, a way to motivate yourself to push a little harder. But it is also possible, and far more resilient, to use connection and possibility as fuel as well.The best lesson of high school might be that everyone has a noise in their heads, everyone feels uncomfortable and everyone would appreciate a little kindness and respect.  END"}
{"prompt": "More popular (and cheap, too) ###", "completion":"If Harper Lee had written To Kill a Mockingbird today, there’s no doubt that the salesforce and the marketers would have pushed for a catchier title, probably with better SEO.  And it’s hard to imagine that Waiting for Godot would have ever been performed on Broadway.  On a similar note: What would happen if instead of taking elements out of our work in order to make the product cheaper, we put things in instead? What if we made it better?  It’s tempting to race to the bottom. The problem is that you might win, and then you’ll have to stay there. Worse, you might try and come in second, accomplishing not much of anything.  Linkbait is a trap, because it brings you attention you actually don’t want.  The alternative is to be idiosyncratic, specific and worth the effort and expense. What would happen if you made something important, breathtaking or wonderful? The race to the top is not only more satisfying, it’s also more likely to work.   And then you get to live there. Doing work you’re proud of, without excuses.  END"}
{"prompt": "Contradictory answers to obvious questions ###", "completion":"That’s how you know that they’re not obvious.When smart, committed people disagree about the answer to a question, you’ve found a question worth pursuing and a discussion worth having.  END"}
{"prompt": "The grateful pumpkin ###", "completion":"It might not be autumn where you live, but the iconography of the large orange pumpkin travels around the world.  People carve faces into them, stick a candle inside and use them to ward off the darkness.  Perhaps we could consider writing on one instead. Inscribing all the things we’re grateful for, all the people who show up in our lives. We could highlight our heroes, our friends, the selfless people who show up for the community instead of simply looking for a shortcut… We could even remind ourselves of the systems, situations and dynamics that we take for granted.  Seeing that pumpkin every day is a great way to remind myself of how extraordinarily lucky I am. Even when it seems as though the news is an unending litany of selfishness and tragedy, it’s possible to find someone who made a difference.  Thank you for caring, for showing up and especially, for leading.  END"}
{"prompt": "Butterfly hunting ###", "completion":"Ideas are like that.  The successful editor, curator or entrepreneur doesn’t go hunting ideas to kill them, but to celebrate them, identify them and dance with them.  And a brutal, all-out frontal attack won’t work. It’s not about raising a ton of money or insisting that the world supply you with only the good ideas. Quibi failed because of the hubris of believing that the ideas could be conjured on a schedule. And countless middlemen have struggled with the dead-end of only wanting to embrace the good ideas, which are often impossible to distinguish from the others at a distance.   Sometimes, you need to look more closely, to reconsider or to circle around again.  And sometimes we go butterfly hunting and find nothing at all.  Fred Hills, who published fifty New York Times bestsellers (including my first one) died a few weeks ago. He took the quest literally, and used to go butterfly hunting with Nabakov. His belief in my book was matched by the trust he offered me and so many authors to find our voice and share it.  Chris Meyer was another butterfly hunter, patiently connecting, leading and challenging, turning on lights in a way that made everyone in the room see the possibilities that lay just ahead.  The ideas are there. It might take patience to nurture them.  [HT to Lisa DiMona.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Subconscious pre-filtering ###", "completion":"It’s entirely possible to believe that your ideas come from the muse, and your job is to simply amplify them. And that successful people are lucky because the muse keeps giving them useful and powerful ideas.I’m not sure that’s what successful people do. All of us get an endless supply of ideas, notions and inklings. Successful people, often without realizing it, ignore the ones that are less likely to ‘work’, and instead focus on the projects that are more likely to advance the mission.It’s possible to get better at this pre-filtering. By doing it out loud. By writing out the factors that you’re seeking, by explaining to someone else how your part of the world works.Instinct is great. It’s even better when you work on it.   You can find more on this in The Practice, my new bestselling book.  I’m blogging about it weekly on Medium. And talking about it on some extraordinary podcasts around the world.  And we just started the eighth season of my podcast, Akimbo.  END"}
{"prompt": "Today is Worldwide Backup Day ###", "completion":"Google is not your friend, it’s a tool.It’s been 2,702 days since they shut down Google Reader and people still remember.Or consider that Google can shut you out of all their services with no recourse or appeal possible. All your data, photos, calendars, emails… gone.But yes, you can back up your data. Do it today…Visit this page to start the process. It’s free. Hopefully, you’ll never need it. Press a few buttons and back up your data to a cloud service so that it’s in two places–This should happen automatically, but since it doesn’t, it’s worth doing.The internet was originally designed as a resilience machine, designed to heal itself and work around interruptions. And the essence of it was a distributed, peer-to-peer network that worked precisely because it was open. As data is hoarded, manipulated and monetized, that original intent has been turned upside down.Resilient systems don’t have to trend toward monopoly. In fact, it’s better when they don’t. And don’t forget to backup your data.[PS the post from earlier today was skewed by homonyms. Thanks to alert readers for pointing it out… sorry about missing it, but the metaphor is still worth thinking about.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Smart, generous and kind ###", "completion":"The Ngram tracks words used in books over the last 200 years. Here’s what a million authors and a billion readers think:    Kindness matters.  [Update: I’m realizing that kind has more homonyms than the other two words, and yet the idea still resonates… Pelayo in Spain recommends this alternative which makes it even more clear!]  END"}
{"prompt": "Are you stalling? ###", "completion":"I have a little wooden plaque with those three words on it.And of course, the answer is often yes.If you’re waiting on an unavoidable delay, then you’re not stalling. If you’re making things better in a way that the customer will notice, then you’re not stalling. If you’re finding that the spaces in between are giving you joy and sustaining you, then you’re not stalling.But…If you’re holding back and looking for a reason why, and that reason is replaced by another reason, then… you might be stalling.  END"}
{"prompt": "Toward better ###", "completion":"Well, that was interesting. Tragic. Heartbreaking. Painful. Difficult.Have more people ever been happier to see a year go away? I’m posting this a few hours early just to clear the decks a bit faster.Our attitude doesn’t have to be driven by the outside world, but sometimes, they overlap. The outside world provokes, persists and insists on changing the story we choose to tell ourselves.And one reason we invented the calendar was to keep the outside world at bay as we reclaim agency over how we’ll choose to act–to respond instead of to react.For those of you keeping track, 2021 is the product of the prime numbers 43 and 47. If you were looking for a reason to be optimistic, that’s as good as any.Thanks for caring and thanks for leading.Here’s to justice, health and peace of mind as we choose an attitude of possibility and resilience in 2021.  END"}
{"prompt": "A different urgency ###", "completion":"For many people, work consists of a series of urgencies. Set them up and knock them down. Empty the in-box, answer the boss, make the deadline.  Over the next few weeks, there may be fewer urgencies than usual. That’s the nature of coming back from a break.  What if we used the time to move system deficiencies from the later pile to the it’s essential to do this right now pile?  Improving a system returns our effort many times over.  Fix your supply chain. Dig deep into your communication rhythms. Figure out the priority list. Quit the tasks that are holding you back. Walk away from dead ends. Add rigor to your processes. Understand the difference between the things that feel urgent and those that are truly important.  None of this works if you do it temporarily. The point is to create and fix systems with finality. Identify a class of projects that your team will do instead of you and then never do them again. Reorganize your data archiving approach and then stick with it. Build a system for lifelong learning and then maintain the commitment.  In any given moment, an urgency that feels like an emergency gives us the permission to abandon our systems and simply dive in and fix it, as only we can. And this permission is precisely why we get stuck, precisely why the next urgency is likely to appear tomorrow.  Resolutions don’t work. Habits and systems can.  Most of us are so stuck on the short-cycles of urgency that it’s difficult to even imagine changing our longer-term systems.  Amazingly, this simple non-hack (in which you spend the time to actually avoid the shortcuts that have been holding you back) might be the single most effective work you do all year.  END"}
{"prompt": "Bonus: A game design history… ###", "completion":"Two videos for when you might have time.For no really good reason, I filmed this long riff about my experience with the early days of video and adventure games. Probably more 1980s game history than you wanted to know.Rewatching them, I’m reminded of how many lucky breaks I’ve had, how often I got the benefit of the doubt and how being in the right place at the right time can change so much.Alas, I didn’t mention many of the people who did the extraordinary work of programming, of organizational development and of believing in possibility. I’m grateful to have worked next to hundreds of people who spent years battling the odds to invent the future.  A history of Spinnaker   Prodigy and online games…  END"}
{"prompt": "The most important blog post ###", "completion":"It is on the most important blog.Yours.Even if no one but you reads it. The blog you write each day is the blog you need the most. It’s a compass and a mirror, a chance to put a stake in the ground and refine your thoughts.And the most important post? The one you’ll write tomorrow.  END"}
{"prompt": "If you don’t know you have it… ###", "completion":"then you don’t. (Not yet.)Cleaning out the fridge after a power failure, I found three half-empty containers of anchovies. Because they magically migrate to the back of the fridge, every time I had needed some, I ended up opening a new jar, because the old ones were invisible. Not just invisible if I had looked for them, but so invisible that it never even occurred to me to look for them.And this is even more likely to happen with the data on your hard drive. If you don’t know to look for it, if you don’t believe it’s there, it might as well be deleted.And of course, this applies to our lost skills, confidence and experience as well.It’s worth putting in regular effort to remind ourselves of what we’ve already got and how it has served us in the past.  END"}
{"prompt": "Stand up and fight ###", "completion":"One of Woody Guthrie’s resolutions was to Wake up and fight.But he wasn’t talking about being a bully. Or picking a fight at the local bar.He was talking about changing the culture.He was challenging himself to push back against the doubters, and even more than that, to overcome his own self-doubt.The culture is created by all of us. It might feel as though it’s done to us, but it’s also created by us.Wake up, stand up and fight. Make things better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Amplify possibility ###", "completion":"People like us do things like this.  Social media understands this.  It also knows that people like points, likes and something that feels like popularity.  The social media companies optimized their algorithms for profit. And profit, they figured, would come from engagement. And engagement, they figured, would come from confounding our instincts and rewarding outrage.  Because outrage draws a crowd.  And crowds establish culture.  And a desire to be the leader of a crowd reinforced the cycle.  And so the social networks created a game, a game in which you ‘win’ by being notorious, outrageous or, as they coined the phrase, authentic. The whole world is watching, if you’re willing to put on a show.  That’s not how the world actually works. The successful people in your community or your industry (please substitute ‘happy’ for successful in that sentence) don’t act the way the influencers on Twitter, YouTube or Facebook do. That’s all invented, amplified stagecraft, it’s not the actual human condition.  Many of us have an overwhelming need to rubberneck, to slow down when we pass a crash on the highway. This is odd, as most people don’t go out of their way to visit the morgue, just for kicks. And yet…  I hope we’d agree that if people started staging car crashes on the side of the road to get attention, we’d be outraged.  That’s what happening, and the leaders of social networks pretend that they can’t do a thing about it, just as Google pretends that they can’t control the results of their search algorithm.  The shift that the leaders of the social networks need to make is simple. In the long run, it will cost them nothing. And within weeks, it will create a world that’s calmer, happier and more productive.  Amplify possibility. Dial down the spread of disinformation, trolling and division. Make it almost impossible to get famous at the expense of civilization. Embrace the fact that breaking news doesn’t have to be the rhythm of our days. Reward thoughtfulness and consistency and responsibility.  You can do this. Enough already.  END"}
{"prompt": "The two levers of modernity ###", "completion":"First: If you come up with an innovation that creates value, that value is multiplied a million-fold because now you can share it outside your village.  Second: If you build a community, the network effect creates increasing amounts of value as more people use it.  And the pothole: As we race to create value, it’s easy to forget that it’s unevenly distributed. A safety net isn’t perfect, but it’s better than no net at all.   Rising tides lift all boats, but we’re not boats.  END"}
{"prompt": "Reasons people donate ###", "completion":"It’s urgentIt’s certain to workIt’s close byEveryone else isIt might happen to youOnly someone as caring as you will choose to make a differenceOnly someone as smart as you can understand something this complicatedIt will raise your status with your cohortOthers are sufferingTime’s almost upPeople like us do things like thisIt’s the right thing to doYou are sufferingIt’s a longshot worth pursuingTo create justiceIt comes with a tote bagIt’s an obligationYour parents taught you wellWe’ll be proud of youBecause right here and right now, nothing would feel better than making a donation…[more]  END"}
{"prompt": "Fortunately ###", "completion":"In the midst of all of it, some people are still able to trust. To trust in others, to trust in possibility and to trust themselves. And…we’re surrounded by opportunity.we often get a second chance.there are still problems to be solved.we learned something.there’s another advance, right around the corner.And always, there’s a chance to make things better.  END"}
{"prompt": "The stuff in the margins ###", "completion":"Do you have to use all the time in the brainstorming session? Fill in the entire page of your creativity notebook?  It turns out that many of the best ideas we have start out as filler. Stuff in the margins. Last-minute extras simply to fill space.  Because the stakes are low and our defenses are down.  END"}
{"prompt": "Belief and knowledge ###", "completion":"They’re different.  Knowledge changes all the time. When we engage with the world, when we encounter data or new experiences, our knowledge changes.  But belief is what we call the things that stick around, particularly and especially in the face of changes in knowledge.  While more knowledge can change belief, it usually doesn’t. Belief is a cultural phenomenon, created in conjunction with the people around us.  The easy way to discern the two: What would you need to see or learn to change your mind about that?  END"}
{"prompt": "Panes of glass ###", "completion":"We have windowpanes because glass used to be really expensive. Panes allowed us to use smaller sheets, with the added bonus that if one broke, you could simply replace part of the window.  Today, big sheets of glass are much cheaper, and many windows feature fake panes of glass–a process that uses one big sheet with moldings crisscrossed over it. Of course, this actually costs more to create than a simple window would. We’re overpaying to reproduce the effect that we originally put into place to save money.  If you look around, you’ll realize that we make choices like this all the time when new technologies arise. Cruft is a comfort.  END"}
{"prompt": "The coordinators ###", "completion":"Fashion is everywhere.  It’s not simply the clothes you chose to wear today  (and the ones that haven’t seen the outside of your closet for years).  It’s the music that you’re loving right now, songs you wouldn’t have tuned into ten years ago.  It’s the way we understand how the world works, which policies make sense to us and what sort of food we eat. Even the investments we make or the debts we incur.  It’s the rhythm of our days, our priority list and our urgencies as well.  Almost none of our choices in the world are the result of independent direct experience. Instead, we make them in the context of culture, of our surroundings, of ‘people like us do things like this.’ We choose to align with a segment of the culture and take our cues from them.  Sometimes, there’s a coordinator.  Forty years ago, fewer than 100 people determined what songs were going to be the popular ones, the ones that ‘everyone’ would be listening to next week. And a consortium of industry titans decides what colors are going to show up in appliances a few years from now.   We might want to believe that culture simply happens, that it’s organic, distributed and based on millions of independent decisions. And sometimes it is. But more often, there’s an instigator and a benefit for someone along the way.  While many fashion systems are more open and permeable than before (there aren’t three TV networks, there are a million YouTube channels) there are still gatekeepers and narrative setters.  How does the coordinator decide? Are they working in your best interests? Are they erratic, self-deceiving, elusive, selfish, or perhaps a long-term thinker? Do they have a bias toward reality and resilience or is it simply a hustle?  In Latin, the expression is Cui Bono. Who benefits? If it’s you, if it’s us, then fashion is working for us. On the other hand, if it leads to negative outcomes, disappointment and disconnection, it’s worth asking if it’s something we want to keep doing, even (especially) if it feels right in the moment. Because everything we do feels right in the moment.  It’s not a secret conspiracy and it is a choice. Who decides today what’s going to be important tomorrow?  END"}
{"prompt": "Asking for the second favor ###", "completion":"The first favor is when you ask a friend or colleague to do something for you.  The second favor is when you ask them to do it precisely the way you would do it.  They’re not related. And the second one costs more.  END"}
{"prompt": "Useful redundancy ###", "completion":"There’s a section in the greeting card store for New Baby cards. I’m not sure what other kinds of babies are available. But the ‘new’ reminds us of why we are sending the card.And Happy Birthday goes without saying as well. The person knows it’s their birthday, and of course you want it to be a happy one, that’s why you sent a card. While a blank on the front of the card would probably have just as much information value, saying it more often than is necessary is precisely the point of the card.Sometimes, we assume that the person we’re engaging with knows exactly what we mean and want to express. But that assumption is often wrong, and a little redundancy can go a long way.PS it’s launch day for The Podcasting Workshop. A perfect chance to build a practice of speaking up, consistently and generously. And it’s also the last day to join The Creative’s Workshop.  END"}
{"prompt": "Famous conductors ###", "completion":"Here’s a useful metaphor:  Famous conductors are often judged for an hour or two on stage. They wear expensive clothes, make dramatic gestures and receive ovations. They also get paid a lot to carry a very little stick and they’re the only one on stage who doesn’t make noise.  But it turns out that none of these things are what makes a great conductor.  What we’re not seeing:  Conductors set the agenda.They have done the reading and understand what has come before.They work to establish the culture of the organization.They amplify the hard work and esprit de corps of some, while working to damp down the skeptics within the organization.They figure out which voices to focus on, when.They have less power than it appears, and use their position to lead, not manage.They show up to rehearsal with an agenda and a path forward.They raise money.They transform a lot of ‘me’s’ into one ‘us’.They develop a point of view. And they balance it with what the listener, the patron and the musicians all need.They stick with it for decades.  It’s a form of leadership that happens in private, but once in a while, we see it on stage.  END"}
{"prompt": "The pinging ###", "completion":"A friend left her phone near me. Over the next half hour, it pinged and chirped.I felt myself getting anxious and a little antsy…These were not pings for me, not on my phone. They weren’t sounds that my phone even makes.It doesn’t matter.The training has been going on for years. We’re caught in a Pavlovian game in which we’re the product, not the organizers.Someone else is ringing the bell, and it’s been happening for so long we don’t even realize how deeply the hooks have been set.  END"}
{"prompt": "Your big idea ###", "completion":"It’s probably not completely original.It’s probably not breathtaking in scope.It’s probably not immediately popular.But… it’s definitely worth pursuing, consistently and persistently for years and years.If you care. If it’s generous and helpful and worth the journey.All the big ideas that made a difference follow this pattern.  END"}
{"prompt": "Each one leads to more ###", "completion":"We can choose to commit to a recursive and infinite path that elegantly creates more of the same.  We can choose possibility.  We can choose connection.  We can choose optimism.  We can choose justice.  We can choose kindness.  We can choose resilience.  And we can decide to take responsibility.  Each leads to more of the same.  END"}
{"prompt": "Count me in ###", "completion":"That’s the opposite of, count me out.  Either you seek to unite and be part of it. Or to divide and watch it go away.  Whatever ‘it’ might be.  We can seek to trigger those we’ve decided are our enemies, undermine the standards and burn it all down. Or we can commit to the possibility that together, we can create something that works.  It’s not that hard to realize that even if we can’t always see the gunwales on the boat, we’re all in the same one.  END"}
{"prompt": "Tilting at windmills ###", "completion":"The windmills aren’t the problem, it’s the tilting.  In Cervantes’ day, ’tilting’ was a word for jousting. You tilted your lance at an enemy and attacked.  Don Quijote was noted for believing that the windmills in the distance were giants, and he spent his days on attack.  Change can look like a windmill.  When we say, the transition to a new place is making me uncomfortable, we’ve expressed something truthful. But when we attack a windmill, we’ve wasted our time and missed an opportunity to focus on what matters instead.  When my dad taught at the University of Buffalo, the heart of his MBA classes was teaching about the ‘change agent’. This is the external force that puts change into motion. The change agent, once identified, gives us an understanding of our options and the need to respond, not to react.  Every normal is a new normal, until it is replaced by another one.  END"}
{"prompt": "The order of operations ###", "completion":"If you put the jelly on before the peanut butter, the sandwich will fail.  And if you try to spread the peanut butter on the plate and then add the bread, it will fail even worse.  Like so many things, the order is not optional.  And yet, we often do the least-scary or easiest parts first, regardless of what the order of operations tells us.  END"}
{"prompt": "Grievance and possibility ###", "completion":"We might be settling scores or we might be opening doors. It’s up to us.  Grievance and possibility have confusing roots.   Grievance isn’t about grieving. In fact, it’s the opposite. Grievance is the narrative of getting even.   Possibility doesn’t itemize everything that’s possible. Instead, it focuses on the side effects that come from acting as though things are possible.  Grievance looks back and possibility looks forward.  Organizations and relationships that are focused on grievance care a lot about their share. About the competition. About maintaining ‘enough’.  Organizations that are focused on possibility care a lot about how big the pie is. About innovation. And about what’s next.  You can build a relationship or a career on grievance or on possibility.  And you can run a justice/penal system that way as well.  Possibility begets more possibility. Opportunities multiply.  And, alas, grievance leads to more grievance. Because it’s the fuel that keeps the narrative going.  Organizations/partnerships/systems that are usefully focused on possibility don’t deny that there are reasons for grievance, that there have been actions and omissions that must be addressed. In fact, they adopt a posture of forward motion as the best way to address the problems that came before.   One challenge is embracing the effective and generative approach of possibility when we’re sure that we’re entitled to grievance.  Toward better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Ranking the unrankable ###", "completion":"Weight is a useful measure. 10 pounds is twice as much as 5 pounds.  Measuring things and then ranking them effectively enables us to make better choices and to scale up our operations.  Sometimes, though, in our rush to standardize and process a complicated world, we begin to measure things that can’t be easily measured, and then, since we’ve measured them, to aggressively rank them.  Smart isn’t easily measurable. Neither is beautiful, good or successful. And especially happy.  A high SAT score is a measure of whether or not you scored well on the SAT. That’s it. A bank balance is a measure of how much money you have in the bank. That’s all.  In the face of the difficulty the system has in measuring things that don’t measure, we create proxies. Things like popularity as a proxy for whether a work of human creativity has worth or not.  It’s a method built to process commodities instead of people, and it’s running amok.  A precision ranking is nothing but a number, an inaccurate and ultimately useless stand-in. These proxies are created and spread and relied upon by a system that craves certainty and order.  Realizing the fraud of the proxies might help us get back to what matters instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "The reverse value/luxury curve ###", "completion":"For most products and services, we rate them on a curve.  Of course the seat on the discount airline was cramped, but that’s okay because it was cheap.  Of course this Camry doesn’t look or ride like a Porsche, don’t be stupid…  But, the opposite is true in the high end. When luxury goods are compared to luxury goods, the narrative is, this one must be better, in absolute and relative terms, precisely because it’s more expensive.  And so hiring McKinsey costs 10x more than hiring a former McKinsey consultant. And so it’s worth more.   And so $150,000 elephant-sized stereo speakers (yes, they exist) are far better than $5,000 speakers (can’t you see?)  This goes beyond the standard understanding of a Veblen good. Because in addition to being more expensive, these super-luxury goods are less effective, harder to use and generally a pain in the neck. That’s part of their appeal.  (And yes, the same is true for corporate luxury goods, like software and IT consulting…)  Price accordingly. And listen to the reviews with a careful skepticism.  END"}
{"prompt": "That might not be the right question ###", "completion":"Where do you get your ideas?  The thing is, everyone has ideas. All the time, every day. Having ideas is part of the human condition.  The right questions might be:  Are you exposing yourself to new inputs and new situations, and challenging yourself to find more interesting ideas?  Are you pushing the ideas you have further, making them more complete, turning them from hunches to notions to ideas to theories?  Are you publishing your theories, sharing your reasoning and having your ideas collide with the real world in service of making things better?  END"}
{"prompt": "Careful what you wish for ###", "completion":"Because wishes don’t always come true, but wishing takes a lot of time and energy and focus.  What you wish for determines how you’re spending a juicy part of your day. If you wish for something you can’t control, that might fill you with frustration or distract you from wishing that could lead to productive work.  Better to wish for something where the wishing itself is a useful act, one that shifts your attitude and focus.  END"}
{"prompt": "The end of dumb pipes ###", "completion":"The phone company didn’t care what sort of conversation you were having. The call was the call. Same is true for cable–what you watched didn’t matter to them.  The reason retail banks are so frustrating to many customers is that because they began with a geographic focus, they’re dumb about who their customers are. They underserve or overserve in random ways. And in trying to serve everyone, they end up doing a lousy job of serving anyone.  But there’s no longer a reason for a provider to be dumb. They can optimize for you and your needs. They know what you’ve done and they should be able to guess what you might want next. Not to do this to you, but with you and for you.  You can pick anyone and we’re anyone is a lousy slogan.  How do you make your pipe smarter than that?  END"}
{"prompt": "Algorithms give or they take ###", "completion":"If there’s scarcity, we need to make choices.  Who gets hired, what website shows up at the top of the search results, who gets a loan.  And while we can make those choices on a case by case basis, at scale, we rely on algorithms instead. A series of coded steps, inferences and decision-making heuristics that ostensibly get better as they gather more data.  At this point, it’s clear that algorithms are remaking our culture. They drive how social media networks surface content, how search engines highlight websites, how AI makes decisions about who flies or doesn’t, who gets a loan or doesn’t, it’s everywhere, all the time.  And algorithms are not neutral. They can’t be. Every decision has consequences, and unlike the pythagorean theorem, there isn’t a right answer, simply a choice about now or later, all along a spectrum.  An algorithm takes when it finds a selfish or defective element of society and magnifies it for short-term profit. It finds habits or instincts that individuals might have and exploits them to do something that benefits the algorithm-maker without leaving the culture or the user better off in the long run.  And an algorithm gives when it amplifies the better angels of our nature, when it helps us do the things we’d like to do in the long run, for us and the people we care about.  A challenge for anyone programming at a monopoly, a public company, a well-funded startup or even a non-profit in search of donors is this: Do you have the guts to build an algorithm you can be proud of even if it doesn’t pay off as well in the short run?  Because if the answer is no, blaming the system isn’t going to help anyone. You are the system, we all are, and given the power of invisible and leveraged algorithms, it’s essential that they be created and maintained by people who understand that they’re responsible for the impact they make.  More on this here and here.  END"}
{"prompt": "Errors in personification ###", "completion":"The sun is trying to break through the clouds.  The virus doesn’t like it when people stay home and isolate.  The computer didn’t expect you to type that.  Of course, the sun, the virus and the computer aren’t people. And genes aren’t actually selfish, and new data demonstrates that we don’t really have a lizard brain.  But these aren’t errors at all. It makes it easier to predict what a non-human is going to do if we imagine that it has motivations and preferences that are like ours.  Two problems can arise, though:  The first is when we assert human motivations that don’t actually do a good job of prediction. For example, imagining that events are motivated by some sort of unrelated specific superstition or narrative.  The second is more problematic: It happens when we personalize other people–imagining that they’re not just humans, but they’re us. If I were you… is not always a useful predictor, because you’re not me. And vice versa.  Everyone has their own history, their own biases and their own irrationalities. Personification is a useful shortcut if it helps us make smart predictions about others, but it’s a trap if we assume that we’re the only ones who are right.  END"}
{"prompt": "A thing about ‘normal’ ###", "completion":"Normal is the thing many don’t notice.  Until it changes. And then we can’t unsee how much we had failed to pay attention to.   Who’s on the short list for consideration, who is given the benefit of the doubt, who gets a head start…  We begin to notice the people that are artificially selected to seem like the right ones, who are then supposed to be better and anointed as normal.  I was thrilled that Unilever has decided to get rid of the word ‘normal’ on their personal care product labels. Because when it comes to people, normal is an artificial construct, the center of a statistical bell curve but not a standard that we ought to seek to achieve, even if we could.  Normal is a distribution, not a person.  END"}
{"prompt": "Screwdriver clarity ###", "completion":"This screwdriver, what’s it for? The one with with black oxide non-slip tips, tri-lobe ergonomic handles, and a special Speed Zone at the base of the handle, which allows for faster turning in low back torque applications. You know, the one with a nut bolster for added strength and versatility. What’s it for?  Can I use it to open a paint can? Well, sure you can, but you could find easier and cheaper substitutes. And you might get paint on the screwdriver, which would make it much less effective for its real job.  Can I use it to turn this Phillips-head screw? Well, possibly, but you’ll probably strip the screw.  Can I use it to stir my coffee? Well, sure, but why?  This all seems obvious.  And yet, we can ask the same questions about your website, your advanced degree, your office building… Or this meeting, that job description or the choice to work a nine-hour day. What’s it for?  If it’s a tool, not a destination, what’s the tool for?  It doesn’t have to be expensive, all-purpose or exactly the same as the others are using. It simply needs to do the job you need it to do better than any other alternative method.  END"}
{"prompt": "Celebrity Art (priceless/worthless) ###", "completion":"Why are some paintings so valuable?  Works by Rothko or Matisse are worth millions. The Mona Lisa is truly priceless.  There are four reasons, all working together, all quite relevant today as we remake our culture around digital goods:  Beauty/decoration. Since before the 20,000 year old cave paintings in France, we’ve been putting things on our walls. Things that are beautiful, or remind us of important stories, or simply our humanity. It happens regardless of income or culture.   Status/scarcity. When gold became revered for its scarcity, it began to show up in the decorations of households that aspired to be seen as high status. The same happened with spiritual relics and items from antiquity. A decoration that is scarce and in demand acquires a sort of cultural beauty that some people seek out.  The printing press. Until 500 years ago, no given painting (or tapestry) was seen by many people. And then, quite suddenly, images began to spread. Durer sold many thousands of the eight editions of his woodcut, and it was one of the first famous pieces of art. And the Mona Lisa? It’s so valuable because it was stolen just as newspapers (in color!) were becoming widespread. Her face was on the front page of newspapers around the world, ensuring her celebrity for generations.  While the fame and cultural currency that the printing press created was a boon for artists, art collectors and dealers, it was also a huge problem. If a print could be had for a few dollars, what good is the original? How to satisfy those that sought status from the decoration on their walls?  First and best version. And thus the last pillar. An original oil painting is truly different from a signed print, which is different from the mass market poster. People wait in line to see a famous painting. They gasp in its presence. They take selfies with it, and it elevates the way they feel about themselves and the world.  Museums exist to show us what we all own, our shared cultural heritage, the output of our culture in the form of original work created by artists with something to say.  I’ve sat in the Art Institute for hours, simply breathing the same air as a Magritte. I grew up at the Albright Knox in Buffalo, with the DeBuffet’s, the O’Keefe’s and the Still’s. The Marisol is an old friend. They were worth the trip.  There used to be museums that forbid people from taking photographs. Over time, they’ve come to realize that this is foolish, because sharing the photographs don’t take anything away from the value of the painting, they add to it (though the sometimes annoying act of the person with a flash or a shutter click is a different story).  The top of the painting market is 50 billion dollars or more a year. Wealthy people and institutions trading scarce originals, and sometimes, perhaps, exhibiting them, for the public or for people who come over for dinner. When there’s a huge signed Jill Greenberg on the other side of the dining room table from you, it’s unforgettable.  But now, we’ve taken the printing press to a whole new level. That has made some existing paintings more famous than ever. But it has also created a billion images that were never paintings in the first place.  There are millions of painters who aspire to be at the most expensive tier of working artist creating for the auction houses and collectors, but very few achieve this goal every year. And there are countless collectors who buy paintings hoping that there value will soar, but most fail to succeed.  The art market has shifted from something that supports art to something that is mostly a market. Some collectors bought art they didn’t like, simply because they were persuaded that the system would make it increase in value or that their perception of status was so shaky that they needed the next big thing. Some painters were pushed to create painting that would go up in value instead of work they believed in. Museums ended up with tens of thousands of paintings in storage. Wealthy collectors put priceless paintings into tax-free havens, simply as a hedge, not for any of the emotions that painting originally set out to produce.  And now, if you’re a fine artist, hoping to make a living selling canvases for far more than they cost to produce, beauty is insufficient. The market for this sort of status is demanding curation and approval and yes, celebrity.  And if you’re a cyber-person, intent on pushing NFTs (the abbreviation for Non-Fungible Token, unhelpful shorthand for ‘an unduplicatable digital code that’s easy to trade and speculate on’) then it’s worth noting:  Digital tokens aren’t beautiful.  Digital tokens will never make someone gasp.  No one wants to see your hard drive.  It’s quite difficult to display the status or beauty of something that isn’t connected to 20,000 years of cultural expectations, institutional embrace and design evolution. And if you can’t display your status or enjoy the beauty, then it’s simply a speculative trade.  People buy and trade stocks in order to make a profit. Most of them are largely indifferent to what the stock certificate looks like.  I think we’re always going to be hooked on status, and we’re always going to seek beauty. I’m not sure, though, that just because we can marketize and digitize something that it will inherit so many of the cultural tropes that are at the core of the human experience.  END"}
{"prompt": "Price, wants, needs and the perils of urgent ###", "completion":"You have a choice to make. There are four quadrants, and the thing you offer can fit into one of them.  Perhaps you make a low-priced treat, something that people want. Wrigley’s gum or Heinz ketchup, or an app that’s fun to use. Because it’s cheap, it might appeal to the masses. Because it’s a ‘want’, you’re not going to kill anyone if it doesn’t work now and then.  In the other corner, you might choose to sell pacemakers. Sure, your profit per unit is in the thousands, but the room for failure is precisely zero. You won’t sell a lot, and every single one of them better work.  The other two corners are also fascinating in their own way.  Perhaps you want to offer a luxury good, something that’s clearly a want, and not a matter of life and death. You won’t sell many of your $15,000 handbags, but that’s okay, because the margins are great. But it better increase my status!  And finally, there’s the tempting but difficult quadrant of low-priced goods that the user feels are mission critical. This is a vial of insulin or a web service that backs up data in real time (which can feel like life or death). Tempting, because people are always happy to pay a bit less for something they really need. And dangerous, because if you fail to invest in keeping your promise, everything falls apart.  END"}
{"prompt": "Cons at scale ###", "completion":"Traditional con men do their work one person at a time. It’s a laborious process, earning trust and the benefit of the doubt before ultimately ripping someone off.  Toward the end of my dad’s life, shameless/shameful phone salespeople did just this and stole his trust, his time and his money.  Like most things, industrialists want to do it faster and bigger.  Scammy direct mail used to be obvious even at a distance. The labels, the stamps, the typography–it all signaled that this wasn’t personal.  And the occasional phone salesperson, calling from a boiler room–we could tell.  Now, as data acquisition continues to scale and become ever more granular, the hustle is getting more personal.  It’s in an uncanny valley–almost real, but not quite. And of course, the distance keeps getting shorter.  So the mail merge, the phone spam, the faux intimacy of a stranger. They continue to blur the lines between personal and personalized.   The end result is going to be a shrinking of our previously-widening circle of trust.  The benefit of the doubt is priceless. I have no patience for people who want to take it away from us.  END"}
{"prompt": "And who are you really? ###", "completion":"There’s a desire to celebrate our authentic self.  But perhaps our considered self, the one that shows up when we’re doing our best to be consistent, generous and professional–that’s our authentic self. And the voice that slips out when we’re tired, stressed or busy is simply an incomplete and lesser version of who we actually are.  We’re the sum total of the interactions we choose to create and the changes we contribute.  END"}
{"prompt": "Certainty, accuracy and leadership ###", "completion":"Certainty: Resolute in the face of criticism and implacable when confronting evidence to the contrary. ‘Never in doubt’ is more important than being right. The need to prove strength and consistency often ties us into knots, particularly in a world with new information and insight arriving so often.   Accuracy: Aware that the sum total of our current assertions is a measure of our wisdom, which means that disproven hypotheses should be abandoned as soon as the truth is made clear. The scientific method is a process, not a lab coat or a textbook. Changing one’s point of view is a virtue, not a flaw.  It seems clear that for just about anything that we can measure, if it really matters, accuracy is a better trait than certainty. And yet our instincts and our media cycles seem to push us toward certainty instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Public companies are too often out of alignment ###", "completion":"The public markets can offer a company quite a bit: Cash right now. Liquidity for the future. A currency to help recruiting and retention.And public companies come with a giant caveat: They are owned by people (the shareholders) who might sell out at any moment. And new ones can take their place in an instant.This flexible ownership is part of the attraction of the stock market, but it also means that you can’t count on the people and institutions that own your organization taking a long-term view. (Long-term for them might even be a week in the future).As a result, the others that the organization seeks to serve: The environment, their customers, the employees, the culture… often lose out. Because thanks to Milton Friedman’s mythology, the primacy of the shareholder (the one who drives the stock price, the very stock price that drives management) means that every time these companies seek to serve one of their other constituents, they have to do a sort of dance, explaining to shareholders why, after all, really and truly, what they’re actually doing is serving the shareholders. Not just serving them, serving them right now.And, thanks to the short-term interests of many people who trade stocks, there’s pressure to own shares that go up the most today, not a company you’re proud to own for the long run.Sometimes, the enlightened and powerful leadership of a company is able to ignore the whining of the shareholders. If you don’t like where this bus is going, sell!But over time, that resolve often fades. I saw this first hand at Yahoo. When everyone who works for you and around you is watching the stock price, it’s hard to decide to do the right thing.If you want to run an organization you’re proud of, choose your ownership as carefully as you choose your employees.  END"}
{"prompt": "The confusion about sorry ###", "completion":"I’m sorry that your cat died, does not mean that I killed your cat.  But, I’m sorry that I stepped on your foot, does mean that I stepped on your foot.  In creating connection and trying to make amends, we often get confused by the two kinds of ‘sorry’, and don’t apologize because we believe the problem wasn’t our fault.  I’m sorry that you had to wait two hours while your car was being serviced. That’s a valid sentence, even if it wasn’t your fault that the schedule was overfull.  I’m sorry that you’re stranded here and you’re going to miss the big meeting. I know it was important, is a useful thing to say even if you didn’t cause the snow storm.  I’m sorry can simply mean, I see you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Confusing identity with strategy ###", "completion":"Who we are isn’t the same thing as what we do.But sometimes, what we do can change who we are.Our identity describes the person we see in the mirror, the groups we identify with, the version of ourselves (and reality) that we come back to over and over. I’m not a writer, or I’m not an entrepreneur, or I’m not a leader, are fairly definitive statements.But when the world changes, opportunities change as well.All of us struggle when our identity doesn’t match the reality of the world around us.In the face of that confusion, it’s tempting to abandon possibility and to walk away from an opportunity simply because it doesn’t resonate with the person we are in this moment. But only when we do something new do we often begin to become someone new.  END"}
{"prompt": "Uncountable ###", "completion":"A mass noun is one that doesn’t take an S when we have more. Butter and Information are both uncountable in use, because when we only have only one unit of butter (or information) we use the same word as if we have four or six units. Butter is butter.  Uncountable words are understandably difficult to measure at a glance. They don’t fit easily into the industrial mindset, and we’re often pushed to find things that are less mysterious.  But it turns out that uncountable words like trust, honesty, commitment, passion, connection and quality are a fine thing to focus on.  END"}
{"prompt": "Knowing it can be done ###", "completion":"We can improve and magnify things in very short order.  Light bulbs, elevators, website technology–give it some time, and people will pile on and all of the important metrics will be sharpened, made more efficient and more powerful as well.  That’s not really the hard part. The hard part is doing it when people aren’t sure it can be done.  And in that stage of development, taking notes isn’t nearly as important as taking leaps.  If you do it once, we’ll figure out how to do it again.  END"}
{"prompt": "You can’t beat the algorithm ###", "completion":"When a new medium shows up that allocates attention, someone comes out ahead.  They win a Google search, amass a ton of FB followers, hit the jackpot on Twitter or even Clubhouse.  They picked me! and the attention feels inevitable. Others see the pennies from heaven and rush in to follow, eager for their share of traffic.  But there is no they and you weren’t picked. The algorithm needs to send attention somewhere, and for a while, it sent it over there. But it almost certainly won’t last. Because the ecosystem is changing, all the time.  You can’t post on a same platform twice, because the second time, it’s not the same platform as it was last time.  We have a chance to do work we’re proud of, and to do it for people who care. And maybe we can do it in a way that will lead them to tell the others. Traffic from an algorithm isn’t the point, it’s a random bonus.  No sense being a puppet, especially if you can’t be sure who is pulling the strings or why.  END"}
{"prompt": "Decoding the sign ###", "completion":"A Deer Xing sign isn’t there to tell the deer where to cross the road.  It’s there to let drivers know that this is the spot where deer often choose to cross the road.  Because deer can’t read signs, and even if they could, they probably wouldn’t bother to obey them. People, on the other hand, are far more likely to be killed by hitting a deer than they are by a shark bite.  A good signmaker is aware of who’s it for and what’s it for. In this case, the hope is that drivers will be more careful.  Too often, signs of all kinds (metaphorical signs, not just physical ones), are simply ALL CAPS YELLING about how the signmaker is frustrated about something they can’t control. If you can’t influence something, why are you yelling about it?  END"}
{"prompt": "Untenable ###", "completion":"You can build a city below sea level, and it might work for a while, but sooner or later, the water will win.  Trends don’t determine whether we’ll be able to accomplish something tomorrow. But seeing and then understanding the trends allows us to work with the wind at our backs, instead of fighting it.  Consider demographics, technology and science. All three are inexorably moving, and while they can be ignored, sooner or later, they catch up with our project and push against it. We can deny the facts of the world around us, with passion or even vitriol, but trends compound.  When you can, focus on something tenable.  END"}
{"prompt": "Competition vs. activation ###", "completion":"Innovators rarely have a competition problem. The challenge isn’t that your market is buying from an alternative provider–the challenge is that they’re buying from no one.  The work we do and the stories we tell when we seek to create activation are dramatically different from the mindset of competition, and yet the lessons from our culture (sports, mass merchants, politics) are all about competition.  We’re better than them, is a competition slogan.  That’s very different from, things could be better, or you’re missing this new thing, or, people you admire are already using this.  If you want to grow, you’ll need to get someone to not only decide that you’re worth their time and money, you’ll need to motivate them to act now instead of later.  END"}
{"prompt": "The host’s rules ###", "completion":"The language we use, the standards we adhere to, the kind of interactions that are permitted–this is up to the host.  You’re at a dinner party, and if you want to be welcomed back, you’ll need to be aware of the way things are around here.  On the other hand, if you insist on rules that are out of sync with the sensibilities and standards of those you invite, don’t be surprised if they choose not to return.  It all begins by understanding who is acting as host. It might be you.  END"}
{"prompt": "Ending it gracefully ###", "completion":"Just about every business, every initiative and every intervention fails sooner or later.Since that’s demonstrably true, it’s worth considering how you intend to fail when the time comes.You can pull out every stop, fight every step of the way, mortgage your house and your reputation–and still fail. Or, perhaps, you can quit in a huff at the first feeling of frustration.The best path is clearly somewhere between the two. And yet, too often, we leave this choice unexamined. Deciding how and when to quit before you begin is far easier and more effective than making ad hoc decisions under pressure.  END"}
{"prompt": "The discard pile ###", "completion":"Walking away from something that we’re used to, even if it’s unjust or inefficient or ineffective–it usually takes far too long. Fear, momentum and the status quo combine to keep us stuck.  And so it builds up. The cruft calcifies and it gets in our way, making our world smaller, our interactions less human. What used to be normal is rejected and obsolete. It turns out that the status quo is the status quo because it’s good at sticking around.  But brave people stand up and speak up and take action. And far too slowly, the system starts to change.  Sunk costs are real, but we must ignore them. Culture changes, our standards evolve, opportunities arise.  Better is possible… if we care enough to walk away from what was and brave enough to build something new.  END"}
{"prompt": "Identity and ideas ###", "completion":"We rarely do or say something intentionally that surprises us. That’s because we are in intimate contact with the noise in our heads–we spend our days looking in the mirror, listening to our inner voice and defining our point of view. That’s not the sort of thing I would say or do…  We call this internal familiarity our ‘identity.’ If it gets lost (when someone joins a cult, for example), it’s noteworthy and can be tragic.  If our ideas are equated to our identity, then talking about ideas is very much the act of talking about yourself.  And thus the tension is created. Our culture and our economy are built on ideas. Many of our society’s ideas get better over time (you don’t go to the barber for bloodletting any longer–it’s what probably killed George Washington) and yet some of them get stuck. Often, we need a generation to step away before an entrenched idea begins to fade, because the people who have been embracing that toxic or outlived idea see it as part of their identity.  As the media realizes that they can improve profits by narrowcasting ideas to people who embrace them as part of who they are, it gets increasingly difficult to have a constructive conversation about many ideas–because while people are able and sometimes eager to change some of their less personal ideas, we rarely seek to change our identity.  It doesn’t have to be this way.  If you’re doing a jigsaw puzzle and a piece you thought fit in a spot where it doesn’t actually fit, that missed fit is viewed as useful information. Go ahead and try the piece in a different spot–that’s not a threat to your identity as a puzzle solver. In fact, your identity as a puzzle solver is tied up in the idea that if the evidence shows a piece didn’t fit, you simply try a new spot, you don’t feel threatened or disrespected.  The most successful problem solvers are people who have embraced this simple method–your current idea isn’t your identity, it’s simply a step closer to a solution to the problem in front of you.  One way to define our identity is to fall in love with an idea (often one that was handed to us by a chosen authority). Another is to refuse to believe our identity is embodied in an idea, and instead embrace a method for continually finding and improving our ideas.  END"}
{"prompt": "A long lead time ###", "completion":"Books are written almost a year before they come out.Tweets take about 24 seconds to launch.Which world would you like to live in, book-world or twitter-world?If you were designing an ad campaign for your project that would run in three years, what would it say? Can you write the resume or Linkedin profile you’d like to have in seven years? Seven months?Long lead times force us to focus on the destination itself, not the bumps or the detours.The deadline for submitting your long lead time announcement is midnight tonight. A chance to hurry up and then stick with it.  END"}
{"prompt": "Take your time ###", "completion":"It means two very different things.  When a person or a marketer takes your time, they’re stealing. Something irretrievable is gone. If your time is taken for selfish reasons, if it’s wasted, there’s no good way to get it back.  On the other hand, when you have enough confidence to take your own time, to take your time to be present, to do the work, to engage with what’s in front of you right now, it’s a gift.  This is precisely what time is for.  We’re not in a race to check off as many boxes as we possibly can before we are out of time. Instead, we have the chance to use the time to create moments that matter. Because they connect us, because they open doors, because the moments, added up, create a life.  END"}
{"prompt": "How to miss a deadline ###", "completion":"In my earlier post, I opened a discussion about how to avoid missing a deadline.  But what happens if you can’t avoid it?  Projects are always on the frontier, combining elements and ideas and effort to do something that’s not been done before, not quite the way we’re doing it here and now.  And so, bold projects sometimes fail to make their deadline. Even if we build systems and use buffers, sometimes it doesn’t work.  Some thoughts:  Don’t wait until the last minute. Wishful thinking is sometimes confused with optimism, but you probably knew more than four days before the deadline that you weren’t going to meet expectations. If people are building dependencies around your promises, then waiting until you have no choice simply makes the miss worse. Because not only are you late, but you were hiding it.Don’t minimize the problem. You’re late. Clearly. So say it. Loud and (not quite) proud. By owning the original promise and then being clear that you’re aware of the miss, you help the people who were counting on you feel seen and respected.Create alternatives. This isn’t always possible, but when it is, it usually leads to better relationships. If an airline can’t have a plane in a certain spot at a certain time, it goes a long way if they do the work of finding all 100 people inconvenienced a new plan, instead of putting that on them, one at a time.There’s a difference between seeing the damage (and working to ameliorate it) and accepting shame and blame. It’s clear that the future is unclear, and that things happen. If you can clearly outline what you’ve seen and what you’ve learned, it doesn’t make your clients feel better if you also fall on a sword–because if it’s not your fault, the sword is meaningless theater. And if it is your fault, it’s worth telling us that as well.In short, there’s no good way to make a missed deadline meaningless to the person who was counting on you. Being counted on is a gift. If you want to be counted on next time, best to invest early and often in making that deadline, and then, in the rare cases when it’s not enough, treating your clients with the respect that you’d like to receive in a similar situation.  [Even better, check out out my previous post and create approaches so you don’t miss the deadline in the first place.]  END"}
{"prompt": "How (not) to miss a deadline ###", "completion":"Deadlines are valuable, and deadlines are expensive.  Organized systems and societies need deadlines. It would be impossible to efficiently build a house if the subcontractors could deliver their goods or services whenever it were convenient for them. Movie studios and book publishers schedule their releases months in advance to allow distribution teams to plan their work. Software is dependent on subsystems that have to be in place before the entire program can work.  Along with the value that synchronized deliverables create, there are also real costs. Not simply the organizational cost of a missed deadline, but the significant damage to a reputation or brand that happens when a promise isn’t kept. And there’s a human cost–the stress and strain that comes from working to keep a promise that we might not have personally made, or that might be more difficult because someone else didn’t perform their part of the dance.  In the wide-open race for attention and commitments, the standards of deadlines have been wavering. For forty years, Saturday Night Live has gone on at 11:30. Not, as its creator says, because it’s ready, but because it’s 11:30. That’s the deal.  On Kickstarter, this sort of sacrosanct deadline is rare indeed. This charger will ship in six weeks! they say, when actually, it’s been more than a year with no shipment date in sight. Or with venture capitalists and other backers. We’re going to beat the competition to market by three months. Sometimes it feels like if the company doesn’t bring wishful thinking to the table, they won’t get funded. Given that choice, it’s no wonder that people get desperate. Wishful thinking might not be called lying, but it is. We should know better.  Earning the reputation as someone (a freelancer, a marketer, a company, a leader) who doesn’t miss a deadline is valuable. And it doesn’t happen simply because you avoid sleeping and work like a dog. That’s the last resort of someone who isn’t good at planning.  Here are some basic principles that might help with the planning part:  If you’re competing in an industry where the only way to ‘win’ is to lie about deadlines, realize that competing in that industry is a choice, and accept that you’re going to miss deadlines and have to deal with the emotional overhead that comes with that.Knowing that it’s a choice, consider picking a different industry, one where keeping deadlines is expected and where you can gain satisfaction in creating value for others by keeping your promises.Don’t rely on false deadlines as a form of incentive. It won’t work the same on everyone, which means that some people will take you at your word and actually deliver on time, while others will assume that it was simply a guideline. It’s more efficient to be clear and to help people understand from the outset what you mean by a deadline. The boy cried wolf but the villagers didn’t come.At the same time, don’t use internal deadlines as a guaranteed component of your external promises. A project with no buffers is certain to be late. Not just likely to be late, but certain. Better buffers make better deadlines.Embrace the fact that delivering something on a certain date costs more than delivering it whenever it’s ready. As a result, you should charge more, perhaps a great deal more, for the value that your promise of a deadline creates. And then spend that money to make sure the deadline isn’t missed.Deadlines aren’t kept by people ‘doing their best.’ Keeping a deadline requires a systemic approach to dependencies and buffers and scenario planning. If you’re regularly cutting corners or burning out to meet deadlines, you have a systems problem.The antidote to feature creep isn’t occasional pruning. That’s emotionally draining and a losing battle. The answer is to actively restructure the spec, removing or adding entire blocks of work. That will be in the next version, is a totally acceptable answer, particularly when people are depending on this version to ship on time.A single deadline is a deadline that will certainly not be met. But if you can break down your big deadline into ten or fifteen intermediate milestones, you will know about your progress long before it’s too late to do something about it.The Mythical Person-Month is a serious trap. Nine people, working together in perfect harmony, cannot figure out how to have a baby in one month. Throwing more people at a project often does not speed it up. By the time you start to solve a deadline problem this way, it might be too late. The alternative is to staff each component of your project with the right number of people, and to have as many components running in parallel as possible.Bottlenecks are useful, until they aren’t. If you need just one person to approve every element of your project, it’s unlikely you can run as many things in parallel as you could. The alternative is to have a rigorous spec created in advance, in which many standards are approved before you even begin the work.Discussions about timing often devolve into issues of trust, shame and effort. That’s not nearly as helpful as separating conversations about system structure and data from the ones about commitment and oomph.Hidden problems don’t get better. In a hyper-connected world, there’s no technical reason why the project manager can’t know what the team in the field knows about the state of the project.   Like most things that matter, keeping deadlines is a skill, and since it’s a skill, we can learn it.  [More on this in my next post on what to do if you can’t avoid breaking your promise.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Date certain ###", "completion":"This is very different from someday.Choose any date you like, as far in the future as you like. But a date, circled on the calendar.By that date, what will you have implemented? What will be in place? Where will you be, what will you be doing?Way more powerful than someday.  END"}
{"prompt": "Sunk costs, creativity and your Practice ###", "completion":"Ignore sunk costs is the critical lesson of useful decision making.  The thing you earned, that you depend on, that was hard to do–it’s a gift from your former self. Just because you have a law degree, a travel agency or the ability to do calligraphy in Cyrillic doesn’t mean that your future self is obligated to accept that gift.  We hold on to the old competencies and our hard-earned status roles far longer than we should. The only way to be creative is to do something new, and the path to something new requires leaving something else behind.  New decisions based on new information are at the heart of leadership. But you can’t make those decisions if you’re also busy calculating how much the old decisions cost you.   Creativity is the generous act of solving an interesting problem on behalf of someone else. It’s a chance to take emotional and intellectual risks with generosity.  Do that often enough and you can create a practice around it. It’s not about being gifted or touched by the muse. Instead, our creative practice (whether you’re a painter, a coach or a fundraiser) is a commitment to the problems in front of us and the people who will benefit from a useful solution to them.  I built a workshop on creativity that’s run by the folks at Akimbo. The fourth session starts this week. If you’re ready to get serious about your art, whatever form it takes, I hope you’ll check it out.  END"}
{"prompt": "Industrial scale and brittleness ###", "completion":"Look at that banana, just look at it.  Bananas are a modern miracle. They’re cheap, nutritious, and readily available.  And just about every banana you’ve ever eaten (if you live in the Northern Hemisphere) came from the same tree.  Not just a similar tree, the way oak trees are all similar to one another. The same exact tree, which was planted in a hothouse in England about a hundred and fifty years ago. The Cavendish banana tree (named after the family that’s now called the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire) is sterile. It has no seeds. The only way to grow one is to take a cutting from an existing tree and basically grow a clone.  Because the tree was optimized for yield and taste, we end up with plentiful, delicious, cheap bananas.   Until a blight arrives. And the virus that’s just around the corner is almost here, and it will wipe out every single Cavendish tree on Earth in just a few more years.  There have been real environmental side effects all along, but at scale, they become impossible to ignore.  Or consider the legal system in my country. It grew from a fairly informal and resilient (if not always fair) way to keep the peace and settle disputes into a behemoth, which combines the prison-industrial complex with a very expensive civil suit system that’s beneficial to many of the key players but ultimately insensitive to those that can’t use it to their advantage.  Check out Rohan Pavuluri’s new TED talk about bankruptcy, or Bryan Stevenson’s urgent talk on criminal justice.  People aren’t bananas, and the injustices that the legal system has created have always been shameful. But at scale, immense scale, they’re even worse.  Industrial scale seems to pay off. Until it doesn’t. And then it’s on us to change it, while there’s still time.  END"}
{"prompt": "The consequence ###", "completion":"Attitude follows action far more often than action follows attitude.We change our mood as a result of how we act. If you want to feel a certain way, begin by acting as if you do. On the other hand, if you truly want to accomplish something, waiting for the mood to strike is ineffective.  END"}
{"prompt": "Code words ###", "completion":"That’s all language is.  Banana is not a fruit. It’s a word that we use in English to identify a fruit.  And code words work beautifully as long as the person you’re seeking to communicate with understands the word the way you think they do.  Often, when people with goodwill and shared values end up disagreeing, it’s because they didn’t understand the code words that were being used.  In fact, it might be the only reason.  END"}
{"prompt": "The market is a listening device ###", "completion":"It’s the most resilient, most granular technique available for us to figure out what people want.  When individuals have the freedom to choose, they often do.  At the same time that markets enable choice, large-scale industrial capitalism works overtime to remove it. The main job of most big company CEOs is to figure out how to lock in customers, because customers without choices stick around longer and pay more.  Some organizations exist to satisfy market demand.  Some work hard to create market demand.  And some are focused on capturing demand and then eliminating the market itself.  The internet has created changes in both directions. We have dramatically more choice when it comes to ways to spend/waste our time, but we also have to deal with the natural monopolies created by the network effect and the hidden levers that drive toward lock in.  If we’re not alert, many of the choice-driven markets we depend on will disappear.  END"}
{"prompt": "Luck is not a strategy ###", "completion":"Advice from people who have gotten lucky is a tricky thing.  Perhaps they did x, y and z, and then got lucky. As story telling creatures, it’s natural to assume that x, y or z had something to do with it. Which can lead to bad advice.  Consider the guy who smoked like a chimney, drank like a fish and lived to be 100. It’s not clear that his habits helped him get lucky.  Luck might not be a strategy, but setting yourself up to be lucky might be.  Luck is a tactic. An unpredictable one, sure, but if it works, it works. A useful strategy might be: I’m going to establish a pattern of resilience and apply information and testing to discover what works. And one of the tactics to support that strategy could be showing up in places where luck can help me out. If I can persist long enough, I’ll get lucky.  But that’s very different than the false correlation of past behavior with lucky outcomes.  END"}
{"prompt": "What’s new? ###", "completion":"That’s a fun question, but not nearly as useful as, what’s effective?Pick up a fifteen-year-old copy of Wired, or a business book from 1969 and see what’s still around.The technology keeps changing, but connection and trust are what still work. Ideas that spread, win. Ideas that stick are worth even more. You can race to be first on a new platform, but it’s far better to be the voice that we would miss if you weren’t there.  END"}
{"prompt": "Anecdotes are not science ###", "completion":"Phrenology was discredited a long time ago. People who should have known better were sure that by studying the bumps on someone’s head, a trained expert could divine insights about their personality. It ended up being used to advance racist and class-based agendas, and was completely debunked. It faded away for decades. And it’s back.  New technology creates the appearance (and sometimes the actual fact) of new insights, new resolution, new certainty.  We might not know what an oscillation overthruster is, or why single photon imaging is better, but it sounds well studied and precise. A chart from Excel seems a lot more certain than one that’s hand drawn.  In our search for anecdotes, particularly about health, behavior or the economy, this apparent increase in accuracy opens the door for more hope, even if it’s not based on widespread results.  The charts used to describe the behavior of stocks and tokens keep getting more complex and refined, but they’re still unable to accurately predict what will happen next week.  The fancy readouts of horoscopes or biorhythms glow with many insignificant digits, but they still tell us nothing about someone’s future, any more than palm reading does.  And an x-ray can tell us with great certainty if your appendix has burst, but a SPECT scan is useless in determining someone’s personality without the aid of an in-person consultation, which is all we’ve ever needed. In fact, that’s precisely how phrenology used to work: meet with someone first, then find validation in the mysterious reading of their bumps.  The standard worth checking for is easy: From the chart or the bumps or the scan alone, without meeting the patient, tell me what you see and what’s going to happen next.  They put Einstein’s brain in a jar, but learned nothing from it.  The folks who ate green coffee beans or swallowed colloidal silver have plenty of anecdotes to support their placebos. And when they move on from pyramids to magnets, the anecdotes will follow them. But anecdotes aren’t science. Like coincidences, they’re by-products of our story-seeking minds, connections we make as we search for solace in a confusing world. And sometimes marketers use the anecdotes to make a sale and hurt the customer.  Very few interventions that involve humans are simple. We need more than a double-blind study, because humans aren’t double-blind. We know what’s on offer, and the story we tell ourselves changes how we behave.  Science is often not the right answer to every question–it often fails to deliver what we need. But hustles pretending to be science are almost always a bad idea.  In fact, stories are too important and worthwhile to need a babble of pseudoscience that some would like put on them.  Placebos are powerful, and if they’re cheap and benign, I’m all for them. My day is filled with placebos of all kinds, because they work. The problems happen when they stop being benign, when they keep us from appropriate treatment and when they’re used against us…  Somehow, we’ve persuaded ourselves that we need to pretend that our anecdotal interventions are actual scientific breakthroughs instead of embracing the fact that we’re humans, and that stories work on us. By wearing the mantle of science, hypesters are not only able to charge more, but they also degrade the reputation of the very methods they purport to use–when we see firsthand that pretend science doesn’t work, we’re tempted to imagine that the same is true for interventions that are actually studied and tested.  We wouldn’t fly on a plane or cross a bridge that was built with the same doublespeak that many folk medicines and soothsayers use. They have their place, they make us who we are, but anecdotes aren’t science.  END"}
{"prompt": "Furious/curious ###", "completion":"They rhyme, but they have opposite meanings. It’s very difficult to feel both emotions at the same time, and one is far more productive than the other.  END"}
{"prompt": "When the objections change ###", "completion":"An objection is a useful way to understand what someone wants or needs. I might buy that, but I need one that comes in red, helps you learn that the color choice matters to this person.  Sometimes, it’s possible that an objection can be overcome. I just found a red one in the warehouse, certainly deals with the color issue.  If that happens, if new information overcomes a previous objection, it’s often followed by a new objection. The safety issue you said you were worried about is addressed in this peer-reviewed study…  And then there’s another objection, and another…  What’s actually happening is the person is saying, I’m afraid.  It might be, I’m afraid to tell you that I’m not interested. But it’s more likely that it’s, I’m afraid of the unknown, I’m afraid about what my friends will think, I’m afraid about money…  And there are two reasons that people won’t tell you that they’re afraid. First, because our culture has taught us that fear is something to be ashamed of. But far more than that, because we’re concerned that if we share our fear, you’ll push us to go forward, and we’re afraid to do that.  When dealing with someone who’s afraid, when they’re objecting to something that’s important, it’s tempting to imagine that more evidence will make a difference–that it’s the objections that matter. But more studies of efficacy or public health or performance aren’t going to address the real objection.  Money (it’s too expensive) is a common objection, but it’s often not the real reason. Price is simply a useful way to end the conversation.  I’m afraid is something we don’t want to say, so we search for an objection instead.  And what leads to forward motion? Either a shift in the culture, in peer approval, which lowers fear. Or sometimes, the fear of doing nothing exceeds the fear of moving forward.  END"}
{"prompt": "How much does a mistake cost? ###", "completion":"Errors are preventable.   But preventing errors requires an investment. Before committing to an error-free production environment, it’s worth calculating the cost.  A typo on this blog is relatively inexpensive. (Thanks to loyal reader Seth Barnes for graciously emailing me when one slips through).   On the other hand, a mistake in calculating the route of a high-speed rail line might cost a billion dollars… And we probably don’t want any errors on the pacemaker assembly line.  If you’ve decided that errors are too expensive for your project, then build a system that doesn’t depend on heroics to avoid errors. Sure, that costs more than just trying harder, but if trying harder was going to reduce errors, it would have worked already.   The pilot who painstakingly works through the pre-flight checklist might not be a swashbuckling Maverick type, but they are much less likely to be the victim of a careless error. The reason that planes don’t crash is because there are countless layers of redundancy and systems to be sure that they don’t.  Spend the time and spend the money and the errors can be avoided. Or accept that errors are part of wayfinding, and realize that your problem is caused by a systemic situation, not a lack of effort.  END"}
{"prompt": "The wayfinding premium ###", "completion":"The second time you rewire a system after finding a hum, it might take two minutes. The first time, the time you figured out what the problem was, it might have taken two hours.  Typing a book takes a few days at most. Figuring out what to type might take years.  We are either adding value by using our time to do something that’s been done before… or we’re contributing by finding out a way to do something new or create a better path forward.  If you’re simply ‘typing’, the work might still be important, but you’re not fulfilling your potential. You won’t earn as much in the way of respect, compensation or satisfaction, either.   On the other hand, if you’ve signed up for wayfinding, forgive yourself if it takes a little (or a lot) longer. Because if we knew the right answer, we would have found it already. That’s the hard part.  It’s possible that you can earn a wayfinding premium when you’re merely repeating something you discovered a while ago, but that’s hard to maintain. And it’s possible that you could find someone to solve your interesting problem fast and cheap, but that’s unlikely.  Being really clear about what we’re buying (and selling) opens the door to getting serious about whether or not you’re here to solve an interesting problem.  END"}
{"prompt": "Self-conception ###", "completion":"The mirror might not lie, but no one looks at you in the mirror more than you do.  Your business or project or life story is intimately known to you. You have lived it. But the outside world will never see all of it, can never see all of it.  And so we bump into the disconnect. The disconnect between the thing we know so well and what others have decided based on their own agenda, background and limited experience with us and our work.  When they don’t align, we can focus on the quality and consistency of our story, and be sure that our actions are integral with the conception we’re working so hard to share.  Consistency is what people pay attention to, and when it’s not there, they make up a story about why. Because they can’t truly know.  END"}
{"prompt": "A new decision based on new information ###", "completion":"People don’t say yes or change their minds because you persist.   That’s because we don’t like to admit we were wrong.  If we’re going to go forward, it’s because something has changed. It might be that our situation is different, that the story we tell ourselves is different, that the times have changed or that your offering has. It might be that we trust you more.  What’s new?  END"}
{"prompt": "Easily confused ###", "completion":"There are countless arguments about words that we often don’t understand the way someone else might.  Words like education, learning, merit, talent, skill, privilege, smart and successful.  They might not mean what we think they do.  Well-educated isn’t the same thing as smart.  Talents are different than skills.  Learning is not the same as education.  Successful isn’t the same as rich.  Agreeing on what we mean is a great place to begin.  END"}
{"prompt": "Fresh herbs ###", "completion":"Chain restaurants rarely use fresh herbs. They’re uneven, unreliable and expensive, and most diners have been conditioned to want food that’s more processed and bland.  The same is true for most of what we buy and sell. It’s becoming ever more predictable, pre-processed and cost-reduced.  The pressure tends to go in one direction–turn your work into a commodity, smooth over the edges and fit in all the way. That seems hard to argue with, particularly if you want to be popular and profitable.  But the restaurant that makes the best sabich in all of New York City takes a different approach. At Nana, in an obscure shopping mall on the outskirts of an outer borough, they’re serving memorable food that doesn’t match the prevailing industrial model. You can’t get something similar from your grocer’s freezer. It’s distinctive and probably a lot more difficult to produce on a regular basis.   The same could be true for what you choose to do. It might not get you a Fortune 500 company as a client, and probably won’t make you #1 on whatever bestseller list tracks the one that’s for everyone, but it might be exactly the work that you’re proud to do.  Thanks, Gina, for caring. And for anyone who goes out of their way to add fresh herbs when they don’t have to.  END"}
{"prompt": "Make the sign bigger! ###", "completion":"Actually, the sign will never be big enough  Make the announcement louder. Make the logo bigger. Yell. Call more people on the phone to sell them an extended warranty. Send more emails. Hustle harder.  None of it works.  The problem with the fountain isn’t that they didn’t make a big enough sign. The problem is that the fountain itself is poorly designed. It’s an attractive nuisance, a dangerous thing to put in the middle of a boring courtyard. The sides invite sitting and standing, and the height beckons people to walk in and around it. And the consistent cues of its design aren’t going to be undone by an ugly, intrusive sign, even one in red with ALL CAPS.  And louder and more persistent PA announcements aren’t going to help if the situation people are in has lulled them into not listening.  And a bigger logo isn’t going to get someone to care about your company if the product and your story don’t resonate with them.  Insisting on a bigger interruption is lazy. It’s lazy because if you really cared about solving the problem, you’d change the situation, not  yell about it.  If you get the design right, you can whisper instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Progress is a trade ###", "completion":"It’s easy to imagine that over there, just a few steps ahead, our problems will disappear.  Pessimists, of course, are sure that instead of disappearing, tomorrow will make things worse.  The truth is pretty simple: All we do, all we ever do, is trade one set of problems for another.  Problems are a feature. They’re the opportunity to see how we can productively move forward. Not to a world with no problems at all, but to a situation with different problems, ones that are worth dancing with.  HT to Gabe.  END"}
{"prompt": "Narrative and feelings ###", "completion":"Which comes first? The feelings, the facts, or the story we tell ourselves that leads to the feelings?It’s surprising that I ended up at the college I went to.Back in 1978, there were two ways to visit campus if you were taking a subway from the airport. One route went through Harvard Square, with its magical campus, and then via bus down youth-friendly Mass. Ave., past Steve’s famous ice cream parlor and on to the small school. The other route, the route the admissions office suggested when I called them, went through gritty Lechmere, then by bus past wood-frame houses built in the 1950s, then some more grittiness and then on to the back of the campus.It would have been easy to use the feelings that the second route created in me, a solo traveler barely 17 years old, to invent a narrative about what was missing from this choice of school.We like to think we make complicated decisions based on rational analysis, but most of the time, we actually make an emotional decision and then invent a rational analysis to justify it.That’s why so many kids pick a school based on how it felt to go to a football game there in October. Or why it matters if it’s raining on the day you visit. Feelings first, then they create a story. Facts come in third.If our goal is to help people make better choices, it helps to first create better feelings.  END"}
{"prompt": "Bad arithmetic classes persuade people to not like math ###", "completion":"Arithmetic is a chore. It’s a ceaseless list of things to be memorized, with few understood. It is easily replaced by an app on a phone.  Math is elegant, magical and breathtaking. Math involves little memorization and a lot of understanding.  If we teach kids math, the arithmetic will take care of itself.  END"}
{"prompt": "Let the market fix it ###", "completion":"After all, the marketplace is scalable, independent, self-funding, convenient and persistent.  Except there are problems that the market hasn’t solved, and probably can’t. A century into this worldwide experiment, the market hasn’t solved mass education, it’s made obesity and health problems worse, and it has dumped an enormous amount of long-term toxic waste into the world where we all live.  Patient capital can work wonders, but networked economies are becoming ever more impatient in their race for basis points and shortcuts.  When we hand a chronic problem over to the market, it might be because we can’t bear to look at it or take responsibility for the hard work and sacrifice it will take to solve it.  If the market can solve a problem, it’s a bargain. Markets are effective listening devices and resilient and often self-coordinating. But expecting the market to solve every problem isn’t useful.  Sometimes, the specific tools of the open market aren’t aligned with the problem at hand. Externalities, patience and incentives are all worth considering before we decide the problem will solve itself.  END"}
{"prompt": "Improving what’s not there ###", "completion":"It’s pretty straightforward to grease a squeaky wheel, or repair a broken window.Far more difficult is to realize that your room would be a lot more pleasant if you added a window in the first place.  END"}
{"prompt": "I don’t want to play ###", "completion":"Tactical approaches can undermine useful strategies.  And knowing your goals and the reason for the game are the best way to avoid the problem.  Tactical thinking forces us to think in innings. It says, here’s a situation, what’s your best reaction/response?  The strategic approach has a different question, Does playing this particular tactical game get me closer to the reason I’m here in the first place?  Strategies don’t change. They’re not a secret. It doesn’t matter if your peers or opponents know your strategy.  Tactics, on the other hand, change often, and are usually best kept quiet.  So why do we get so hung up on tactics?  It begins with: Strategies can be frightening. If we say what we want and how we hope to achieve it, two things could happen: we could fail, and that would disappoint us, or we could succeed, and that would frighten us.  It’s easier to simply react by engaging in another tactical round that the world has presented to us. You can spend your days doing nothing but playing with tactics, and never realize you didn’t even have a strategy.  What do you want? What change do you seek to make, how do you want to spend your days? How will get you there?  Figuring out which games you aren’t going to play is a fine step on the road to figuring out your strategy.    Unrelated but timely: A post from 13 years ago about meetings, and my podcast from this week about the same topic.  END"}
{"prompt": "I did the thing that was… ###", "completion":"A simple but difficult fork in the road for the choices we make.  I did the thing that was:   expedient  easy  safe  what my boss insisted on  generous  brave  new  effective  done by everyone else  deniable  fun  resilient  scalable  unique  selfish  fast  convenient  in sync  remarkable  risky  self-aggrandizing  anonymous  the way it’s always been done.  END"}
{"prompt": "Great ideas always sound like they’re far too soon ###", "completion":"Good ideas feel early.  And late ideas are acclaimed by most of the reviewers with opinions that don’t actually matter.  Part of our challenge is that the lousy ideas get a very similar pre-launch response as the great ones.  If you wait until the market is telling you exactly what it wants, you’re almost certainly too late.  On the other hand, if you can find the resources to stick it out through the trough of skepticism, you’ll be around to discover if your idea was any good or not. The best shortcut is the long way forward.  END"}
{"prompt": "How’d they do it without you? ###", "completion":"Somewhere, perhaps nearby, it went well.   A family gathering happened and all the details were right.  A project launched on Kickstarter and it succeeded.  A person was hired and they were a good choice.  The terms and conditions were updated, and no mistakes were made…  It’s easy to use our indispensability as fuel. Fuel to speak up and contribute. That’s important. But it’s also possible for that same instinct to backfire, and for us to believe that if we don’t do it, it won’t get done right.  That’s unlikely.  END"}
{"prompt": "Is TikTok powerful? ###", "completion":"To be powerful, a medium needs two things:  The ability to reach people who take actionThe ability for someone in charge to change what those people see and hear and do  The telephone reaches a lot of people, but AT&T has very little power because they have no influence over who makes phone calls.  Lots of people have Sony TVs, but it’s Netflix that has the cultural power because they decide which shows are promoted on the start screen.  People in the music business are flummoxed by the number of new acts that are showing up out of nowhere and becoming hits on TikTok. They’re talking about how powerful this company is.  But it’s not. It’s simply reporting on what people are doing, not actively causing it.  The folks with the power are the anonymous engineers, tweaking algorithms without clear awareness of what the impact might be.  Google and Amazon used to invite authors to come speak, at the author’s expense. The implied promise was that they’re so powerful, access to their people was priceless. But the algorithm writers weren’t in the room. You ended up spending time with people who pretended they had influence, but were more like weatherpeople, not weather makers.  Reporting the weather is different from creating the weather.  There are still cultural weather makers, but they might not be the people we think they are.  END"}
{"prompt": "Feature requests for monopolists ###", "completion":"I’d like Gmail to be smart enough to automatically skip the spam folder for any mail that’s coming from someone I just wrote to.I’d like my Apple calendar to know that I never, ever schedule meetings at 3:30 am and to guess that I mean PM. And I’d like it to not only know what time I typed in, but to not make me hit an extra button every single time to change the time from the default.I’d like Final Cut Pro to allow me to watch the video I’m editing at a faster speed, the way all modern video playback permits these days. It would save hours and it’s got to be easy to implement. (Update: Fixed!)I wish Fedex had phone service like they used to, and that UPS would make it easy for me to let the driver know where packages go, even (especially) since driver turnover is so high.I’d like Netflix to offer much smarter sort mechanisms for discovery.It would be great if Google stopped acting like an evil overlord when it comes to search, discovery and their relentless obliteration of providers they decide are competitors.I have 80 more, but what’s the point, really? Without adversarial interoperability, monopolists don’t listen.They don’t have to.  END"}
{"prompt": "Cyber-realists ###", "completion":"Soon after the invention of the wagon, someone was able to move logs around much more easily. And shortly after that, someone had a wagon run over their leg. Wagons were used to deliver food but they also were put to use hauling weapons around.  The cyber-optimists believe that the wheel of technology turns towards progress, perfecting our life a bit more each day. In which prior century would you rather live?  The cyber-pessimists view technological change as a threat, to be examined daily and guarded against with vigilance.  Neither default position is defensible or sustainable.  Technological change doesn’t always make things better. It often comes with significant side effects and costs. And yet, thanks for the vigilance and hard work of some folks, technology also has a long track record of making us safer, healthier and even happier.  The cyber-realist sees both and is focused on being careful about systemic change and lock-in, especially for cultural and organizational changes that are hard to walk away from.  END"}
{"prompt": "The nesting bowls ###", "completion":"Seven bowls might take up an entire cabinet.  But if the designer slopes the sides of each bowl just so, they stack. The amount of space required to store them goes down by 80%.  The hard part isn’t figuring out how to stack them. It’s realizing that stacking is an option.  END"}
{"prompt": "The inevitable decline of fully open platforms ###", "completion":"The spammers have found Substack.  There’s a long history of useful tools on the internet attracting selfish con men.  Substack is a platform for bloggers who want paying subscribers. They’ve done the technical work and quiet lobbying to get past the promo folder and the spam filters, and as a result, a blog on Substack is going to reach more people and come with a veneer of respectability.  One option a company with a useful network has (whether it’s an email platform or a social network) is to curate what they feature. They’ve built an asset and that asset goes up in value when it attracts thoughtful users.  The other option is to believe that ‘open’ is the answer, the more open the better. As we learned when we launched Squidoo a decade ago, it rarely is. People in disguise don’t make good neighbors. A fully open platform inevitably attracts selfish jerks, who, without curation, begin to degrade the very asset that made the platform appealing in the first place.  Wikipedia used to be fully open, but persistent graffiti on useful articles meant that serious users were spending most of their time fixing what shouldn’t have been broken. Now, you have to earn the right to do certain edits to certain articles.  The tension is simple: If a platform is carefully vetted and well-curated, it meets expectations and creates trust. If it’s too locked down and calcifies, it slows progress and fades away.   Radio, TV and magazines have always been curated. Even the letters to the editor are read by someone before they’re printed. The magazines that went to the web and let just about anyone write on their sites ended up with sites that just about no one trusted.  Too much curation stifles creativity, opposing viewpoints and useful conversation. But no curation inevitably turns a platform over to quacks, denialists, scammers and trolls.  Over time, the value of a uniform, a brand or a platform is defined by the worst people who wear it or use it.  Trust and attention are in a long dance, but only trust wins in the long run.  END"}
{"prompt": "Solving for stress ###", "completion":"If we’re hungry, the obvious solution is to eat something.  If we’re restless, it pays to get up and walk around.  Is stress different?   Along the way, it seems as though we got confused about the best way to deal with the stress that comes from work and from the projects we work on.   Push through the stress and on the other side, everything will be okay.  Simply get all the details right, get an A, get into a famous college, make the sale, polish the logo, do the pitch and then… reassurance will follow.  The reassurance of success or even survival. The reassurance of external acclaim or simply relief.  Now that everything’s okay, no need to be stressed!  Until the next time. Which might be tomorrow.  Reassurance is futile, because there’s never enough of it.  Some folks manage to get their projects done without this sort of stress. They’re not using the search for reassurance as fuel.   The solution to stress isn’t reassurance. It’s accurately understanding the world as it is, and making choices about what we do and how we do it. But far more than that, we relieve stress by making choices about the stories we tell ourselves.  What’s the difference between giving a speech to your dog and giving one on the TED stage? It’s the same speech. The difference is in the story we tell ourselves about the stakes, the opportunity and what might happen next. If that story gets debilitating enough, it can paralyze us.  If you’re on a backpacking trip, there’s little doubt that ten more minutes of tired to get to the next campsite is a smart investment. A little more tired translates into a lot more rest.  But if you’re at work, there’s not a lot of evidence that more stress is the best way to have less stress.  Look for the story instead.    [PS It’s not easy to change your story. For some people, and in some situations, it’s almost impossible. But that doesn’t mean that more stress in search of reassurance is going to make your search for a useful story any easier. If others in your situation have figured out a story that works for them, that’s a good sign that you might find one too. If no one has, changing your situation (if you can) might be the best way forward. But we need to get unhooked from the cycle of reassurance.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Which problem are we solving? ###", "completion":"Solving a problem puts value creation first.  Who’s it for?  What problem does it solve?  Would we miss it if you didn’t build it?  At the beginning of the web, companies grew by focusing on the problems that their users had.  As a result, people found a partner, a place to chat, a way to buy a book they’d been searching for, and yes, a chance to sell their Beanie Baby collection. They listed jobs and found them, sent messages around the world and looked up information they needed. There wasn’t always a business model, but the successful startups got successful because they were relentlessly focusing on solving a problem for the customer.  If it was hard to explain why someone needed what you were doing, you had a real problem.  This was the single best use of the venture money that flowed into the web twenty-five years ago. Patient investors said, solve a customer problem well enough and the profit will take care of itself.  In just a few decades, a lot of the straightforward problems found profitable outcomes.   Many small businesses run into trouble because they start in a different place–the question they ask is: how does the owner make a living? Serving the customer comes second when the owner is focused too much on sunk costs and bills due.   Over time, successful businesses figure out how to align their goals with the customers they serve.    Even Beanie Babies solved a problem for someone.  END"}
{"prompt": "Can we get a puppy? ###", "completion":"The internet is filled with puppy quandaries.  You can get a puppy at a pet mill/pet shop in about an hour (please don’t). But over the course of your lifetime with that dog, you’ll need about 3,000 hours of time and money to take care of him.  The same time/money math applies to doing a good job on any social network. It only takes a few minutes to sign up for an account, but most users put in just enough time to be wasteful and not nearly enough time to generate anything of value as a result.  Accepting international orders, supporting a different category of industrial customers, putting your customer service phone number on the box, opening a conflict or litigation–these are all puppy questions.  The cool kids waste a lot of time because they forgot to think about them.  END"}
{"prompt": "First come, first served ###", "completion":"This is the default for allocating something that’s scarce.  It’s also rarely the fairest or most efficient alternative. And it’s sort of lazy.  I called a service provider yesterday and was told that they had a two-year waitlist.   They could sort the list by who needs what they do the most.  They could sort it by which sort of client would be the best fit.  They could even sort it by which client would allocate the most resources to be next in line.  Any of these choices would be more useful to them and to their clients than the semi-random solution of handing out numbers at the deli.  It feels more fair because we’re used to it. But it’s actually less fair to just about everyone involved.  When a luxury good is allocated based on time invested by the purchaser, it may seem that rewarding someone who stayed up all night to wait in line makes sense. After all, they traded the one commodity that everyone has the same amount of to signal their desire to be in the line.  But perhaps there’s someone who would put the item to better use. Or consider the utility of allowing people who want something to trade time spent as a tutor or in a food shelter for priority instead.   The internet allows us to transcend time and space. We can collect information and connect people who aren’t necessarily first in line.  Every time we choose not to, we’ve chosen to ignore the value that could be created.  END"}
{"prompt": "Seeing the continuum ###", "completion":"It’s so much easier to see and process the world if we divide it into discrete bits. This is non-fiction, that’s fiction. This is a good restaurant, that’s a bad one. This person is succesful, that one isn’t.  These distinctions are almost always wrong.  Not just wrong, but unhelpful, because by ignoring the stuff in between, we isolate ideas (and people) instead of seeing them as part of a continuous whole.  Slopes aren’t necessarily slippery, but they’re far more likely to exist than neat staircases. And then we have to make the very difficult decision of where in the messy middle we’re going to place a marker.  END"}
{"prompt": "The chance you’ve been waiting for ###", "completion":"It’s here, right now, today.  The open-source project that needs a contributor.  The community charity that needs a volunteer fundraiser.  The co-worker who needs coaching on a new presentation.  The startup idea that needs someone to go out on a limb and talk about it in public.  The local elected board that needs to be covered now that newspapers don’t do that any more.  The free-to-use courses online that teach everything from language to technology.  The friend who would love to hear from you by phone.  The Wikipedia article that needs editing.  The codebase that needs bugs fixed.  The story that needs to be told…    Opportunity is another word for a problem to be solved. And opportunity is often there, but it rarely knocks.  END"}
{"prompt": "But of course! ###", "completion":"That’s the best sort of breakthrough idea.An idea that after it is seen, can’t be unseen, an idea that changes what comes next.No need to change the world. A tiny part of the world, even one person, is enough for today.  END"}
{"prompt": "On doing the reading ###", "completion":"It’s essential.   Domain knowledge is a gift. It’s how we advance in our field and in society. The insights and false steps of those that came before us, laid out clearly, there to be learned.  And it’s sort of a trap.  Because you used to be able to do ALL the reading. You could read all the essential science fiction books before you wrote yours. You could watch all the key movies before you directed yours. You could understand all the current thinking in a field of medicine before you prescribed a drug…  No longer.  Some people have responded to the long tail of available reading by deciding to do none of it, as if naive beginner’s mind is an appropriate strategy for a professional.  And some have responded by simply freezing in place, demanding perfect knowledge before making an assertion.  Clearly, the successful path lies somewhere on the curve.  There comes a moment in doing your reading where new work begins to rhyme. When you start to see the connections. When you understand who influenced the person you’re engaging with right now.  That’s the moment to begin shipping your work and making your own assertions.  END"}
{"prompt": "All the answers ###", "completion":"In an expert-run industrialized economy, there’s a lot of pressure to be the one who’s sure, the person with all the answers.   Far more valuable is someone who has all the questions. The ability to figure out what hasn’t been figured out and see what hasn’t been seen is a significant advantage.  Rarest of all is the person with the humility (and confidence) to realize that even the list of questions can remain elusive. Finding the right questions might be the very thing we need to do.  END"}
{"prompt": "The Goldilocks fallacy ###", "completion":"One way to tell if the audience is happy is to ask a simple question: Do you want it spicier? (or the equivalent).  If half the people want it to go in one direction and the other half want the other, then you know you’re at ‘just right’. You’ve minimized the number of unhappy customers.  Here’s the problem: This assumes that there’s a normal distribution of preferences. In nature, many things are in fact distributed like this. Height, for example, or sensitivity to loud sounds. Most people are in the middle, fewer people are at either end. The goal when making something for everyone, if everyone is distributed normally, is to seek out the middle.  But!  Personal preferences aren’t normally distributed. Most people don’t care at all, some people care a lot.   And!  In any market with choices, you’re no longer going to be able to serve everyone, because given a choice, people will make a choice.  So, seeking the Goldilocks equilibrium is a trap. While it might diminish criticism, it maximizes apathy. While it might increase your appeal to a hypothetical middle-of-the-road consumer, it might be that there aren’t many of these.  For many products and services, the middle is hollowed out. What you’re left with are the people who want a lot more or want a lot less of whatever it is you’re able to adjust.  END"}
{"prompt": "When in doubt, look for the fear ###", "completion":"My friend Amy taught me that craven doesn’t mean what I thought it meant. I’ve been using it to mean, selfish in a particularly short-sighted way. It actually means fearful and gutless.  But, exploring the thesaurus, I discovered that it also means dastardly. I was sure that Snidely Whiplash was a dastardly villain. A dastardly deed must be something bad.  Nope, it means cowardly.  But wait!  It turns out that it also means particularly selfish and evil.  When someone is fearful enough, craven enough, they sometimes end up acting in unsocial and even hurtful ways.  While there are definitely some super villains among us, it’s more likely we’re simply dealing with someone who feels like he’s drowning.    [PS I have a brand new short video course on LinkedIn on decision making. It’s free for the next six hours.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Defending change (or the status quo) ###", "completion":"The easy argument to make is that the thing we have now is better than the new thing that’s on offer.  All one has to do is take the thing we have now as a given (ignoring its real costs) and then challenge the defects and question the benefits of the new thing, while also maximizing the potential risk.  A hand-written letter is more thoughtful, more likely to be a keepsake, and a more permanent record than a simple email.  On the other hand, the technophile defending change simply has to list all the new features and ignore the benefits we’re used to.  An email is far faster, cheaper and easier to track than a letter. It is more likely to be saved, and it can be sorted and searched. Not to mention copied and forwarded with no problem.  What’s truly difficult is being a fair arbiter. I fall into this trap all the time. We begin to develop a point of view, usually around defending the status quo, but sometimes around overturning it, and then the arguments become more and more concrete. While we might pretend to be evenhanded, it’s very hard to do.  Sometimes, we end up simply arguing for or against a given status quo, instead of the issue that’s actually at hand.  And the danger is pretending you’re being fair, when you’re not. In this silly article from the Times, the author (and their editors) are wondering if oat milk and pea milk are a scam.  This is a classic case of defending the status quo. Here’s a simple way to tell if that’s what you’re doing: imagine for a second that milk was a new product, designed to take on existing beverages made from hemp, oats or nuts. Defending oat milk against the incursion of cow milk is pretty easy.  The author could point out the often horrific conditions used to create cow milk. Wait, you’re going to do what to that cow? They could write about the biological difficulty many people have drinking it. Or they could focus on the significant environmental impact, not to mention how easily it spoils, etc.  Or imagine that solar power was everywhere, and someone invented kerosene, gasoline or whale oil. You get the idea…  There are endless arguments to be had when new ideas arrive. The challenge is in being clear that we’re about to take a side, and to do it on the effects, not on our emotional connection to the change that’s involved.  END"}
{"prompt": "Messing with Strathern’s Law ###", "completion":"When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure.  Marilyn Strathern expanded on Charles Goodhart’s comment about monetary policy and turned it into a useful law of the universe.  As soon as we try to manipulate behaviors to alter a measure, it’s no longer useful.  That’s why you can’t believe social media metrics. Because they don’t measure anything except whether someone is good at making them go up.  END"}
{"prompt": "New problems, old problems ###", "completion":"Most of the challenges we face are things we’ve faced before. It might be a personal situation or a business one, but it’s not new.  If what you’ve done before works, it’s not a problem any more.  If you need to stick it out because there’s no other way through it, it’s not a problem, it’s a situation.  But if you think it’s a problem, then the hard work is deciding to try something new, as opposed to the predictable but unsuccessful path of doing what you did before.  That’s not the same as the challenge we face when a new problem arises.  A new problem doesn’t need fresh thinking, it needs clear awareness. We can begin by acknowledging we have a problem, identifying the constraints, the boundaries and the assets involved.   And then we can go to work to solve it.  Because ultimately, that’s our job. To solve interesting problems.  END"}
{"prompt": "The simple but difficult marketing flip ###", "completion":"From, Pay attention, I want you to buy what I made.  to…  I’ve been paying attention, and I think I can offer you what you want.  END"}
{"prompt": "The point of maximum leverage ###", "completion":"The best way for a movie studio to outperform is to attract and encourage creators with vision, drive and commitment.  And yet, the key executives might be spending their time and focus and effort on micro-managing the end credits on the next movie or setting up a press junket.  The best way for a marketing team to grow sales and market share is to help design a product that uses a network effect and builds remarkability and engagement right into the item itself.  And yet, the team just spent three hours arguing about where to shoot the next commercial.  That small business will probably be most transformed by creating sell-through and market demand for their new product, But it’s overwhelmingly urgent to focus on a shipment that’s delayed, even though the supply chain can’t be fixed.  It goes on and on. For a job search, fixing your resume isn’t nearly as important as shipping a personal project. For a restaurant, creating a reason to come back with friends is more important than getting all the normal things right…  We can’t fix this problem until we see it, and then we need to be clear with ourselves and with our colleagues about where that leverage point is.  END"}
{"prompt": "Fill before empty ###", "completion":"When the cost of topping off your battery is less than the catastrophic risk of running out of juice, it pays to add to your reserves.That’s the entire point of having a tank. Going near empty isn’t nearly as effective as building up a cushion. Have your emergency on your own schedule.  END"}
{"prompt": "Effort toward quality ###", "completion":"Quality is defined as consistently meeting spec. A measurable promise made and kept.  Effort is what happens when we go beyond our normal speed. When we dig deep and exert physical or emotional labor and focus on something that is out of the ordinary. Effort is the opposite of coasting.  Often we’re taught that quality is the result of effort. That if you simply tried harder, you’d come closer to meeting spec.  And yet, when we look at organizations or brands or individuals with a reputation for quality, it’s not at all clear that they accomplish this with more effort. Because that’s simply not sustainable.  The people who work at a Lexus plant aren’t more tired at the end of the day than those that make the Cadillac Escalade. It’s not about effort. The same is true for the Dabbawalla who never misses a delivery. In fact, focusing on effort (and the effort of your team) is almost guaranteed to ensure that your quality problem will persist.  Persistent quality problems are a systemic issue, and if you’re not working on your system, you’re not going to improve it.   How do we do this work? is a much better question than, who isn’t trying hard enough?  END"}
{"prompt": "Entitlement ###", "completion":"A feeling of entitlement is hard won.You suffered to get to this spot. You were mistreated. You worked hard. You paid your dues. You were treated unfairly. It’s your turn. Justice demands it. You’re aggrieved. Or perhaps the thing you’ve worked so hard on is magical, special and totally worth people’s attention.Like I said, you’re entitled. To your grievance or the meeting or even simply, the benefit of the doubt.Alas: Our entitlement isn’t helpful.Feeling entitled doesn’t make it more likely that others will listen to you, do what you ask or respect you. Feeling entitled doesn’t get you a sale or make it easier to merge into moving traffic, no matter how long you’ve been waiting.So yes, you’re entitled. We all are, sooner or later.But feeling that we’re entitled and demanding that others realize that we’re entitled is completely useless and might even get in the way of the work we hope to do.  END"}
{"prompt": "Customer service is free ###", "completion":"(Customer service is expensive)  Of course it’s expensive. You’ll need to hire people inclined to be empathic and kind. You’ll need to provide systems and training and support. You’ll need to avoid shortcuts and treat people better than the minimum required to get through the day. And you’ll need to trust your people to do what’s right.  But all of that expense–it’s the cheapest way to spread the word about what you do.  Great customer service pays for itself.  There are many situations where no customer service at all also pays for itself. Google spends not a nickel on helping people with many of the services they offer… and the money they save is spent on something else that permits them to grow.  It’s the in-between spots, the choice of low customer service, or nearly enough–that’s when it’s simply a waste of time and money.  The single biggest marketing bargain remains a customer who chooses to recruit new customers.  END"}
{"prompt": "Sunday driver ###", "completion":"There’s a road near my house that was built early in the automobile era. It was built so that early adopter car owners would have something to do with their cars–a parkway that went nowhere in particular, perfect for a Sunday drive.  Along the way, the term Sunday driver has become a criticism. It describes a meandering, purposeless driver. A driver who might be watching the scenery instead of paying attention to the road–someone who rarely yields the right of way and probably causes more than a small number of accidents when surrounded by drivers who are in a hurry.  We went from Sunday driving being the point to it being a hindrance, because the road is hard to share.  The digital world we live in was created and populated for Sunday drivers. It’s only in the last two decades that, like expressways, it has become a center of commerce and industry.  But unlike the scarcity of the road, the digital world has lots of space.  There are several internets. One is filled with hobbies and connection and possibility. And sometimes we confuse it with the other one, the one that’s at the center of our commercial life.  Most of the time, internet Sunday drivers don’t bother anyone, and perhaps we can all learn a lesson from their desire and ability to make the journey worth the effort.  END"}
{"prompt": "Art with intent ###", "completion":"Art (movies, plays, fiction, paintings, poetry…) exists to create a change. Often, that’s a change in the viewer, and sometimes, powerful art changes the culture.  Art with no intent can entertain us, and it can also reinforce stereotypes and simply help what is in our world persist.  Art with selfish intent exists to manipulate the viewer to serve the needs of the artist. It doesn’t often spread, but when it does, it can have a corrosive effect on the world around us.  But art with generous intent is different. It might not address an issue the way you would (in fact, that’s precisely why we need it) and it creates tension as it helps us look at things in a new way.  The plays of Sarah Jones,  or a book by Sinclair Lewis or music by Charles Wilson or a movie by Amy Koppelman exist to make us think hard. To think about what we’ve taken for granted and to think about what might be different if we cared enough.  I’m not sure it even matters what the artist thought they wanted when they sat down to create the work. The art itself seems to want something, to make a change in the world. And the ability to create art like that belongs to each of us.  END"}
{"prompt": "Afraid of afraid ###", "completion":"We’d probably be better off if we could simply say, I’m afraid.  Our culture has persistently reminded us that the only thing to fear is fear itself, that confessing fear is a failure and that it’s better to lie than to appear un-brave.  And so we pretend to be experts in public health and epidemiology instead of simply saying, I’m afraid.  We fight possible change from the start instead of examining it on the merits.  And we make uninformed assertions about the causes and implications of global phenomena instead of acknowledging that change is scary.  Fear of being afraid keeps things on our to-do list forever, keeps important conversations from happening and shifts how we see our agency and leverage in the world.  The bravest leaders and contributors aren’t worried about appearing afraid. It allows them to see the world more clearly.  END"}
{"prompt": "The lifeguard hack ###", "completion":"Who am I to walk up to someone at a party and introduce myself?  Who are you to start a new project?  Who are they to give a talk on the main stage?  Don’t raise your hand–someone else might have a better question. Don’t ship that work, it’s not ready…  There are endless excuses, comparisons and reasons to hold back.  Unless…  Unless you’re on lifeguard duty and someone is drowning. In that situation, even if you’re not the best lifeguard in the world, and even if the water isn’t the perfect temperature, and even if you don’t quite remember how to do the latest version of the cross-chest carry… you jump in the water.  Because it’s not for you. It’s for them.  Generosity unlocks doors inside of us.  END"}
{"prompt": "The oracle ###", "completion":"Resistance often shows up insisting that it can predict the future.  The voice in our head, the one that knows everything, also knows that you will be rejected, that the work will be misunderstood, that you’ll end up shamed.  Not just the voice, but the circle around us can do this as well if we choose to listen. Wearing the hat of the ardent supporter, they will try to protect you by predicting the demise of that next thing you were pinning your hopes on.  And it’s easy (and tempting) to give them credit for soothsaying because they know so many other things. They (we if we count the voice) know all about the failures and disappointments of the past. They know all about the hard work and all about how others have stumbled. And so, of course, they must also know about the future.  A lesson from a koan is really valuable here. Voices that purport to know the future–whether they are psychics, astrologers, family or the noise in our head–are pretty effective when it’s vague enough, but terrible when it comes to specifics. That’s because when it’s vague, we complete the story on our own, creating our own fact patterns after things happen.  The simple question to ask the oracle is: I have a handful of beans. How many are there?  As much as we might want an oracle, there aren’t any. What we need, it turns out, are supporters who trust us and have our back.  END"}
{"prompt": "A Scrabble hack ###", "completion":"It’s definitely a regular pastime of mine, and one of my favorite games. I usually play solo with the Word Master app.  The structure of the game rewards knowledge of really short words like qi and aa, but the exciting part happens when you find a seven-letter word…  The hack that would work if you’re playing in real life, with other people and actual tiles: On every turn, each player is allowed to turn one of the letters in their rack over and treat it as a blank, which could be any letter of the alphabet.  Suddenly, possibilities multiply! The number of 7 letter bingo words explodes. Instead of wrestling with 7 dependent variables, you have 6 and a wildcard.  The metaphor, as you’ve already guessed, is that every day we may have a chance to turn over one of our ‘letters’ and make it into something else, if we are brave enough.  END"}
{"prompt": "Under the circumstances ###", "completion":"The circumstances are heavy indeed. Systems work hard to maintain the status quo.  The teacher is doing the best they can. But the principal and the board and the regents and the parents…  The board member got elected with great intentions. But the state and the unions and the parents…  The textbook publishers want to do better, but the boards and…  You get the idea.  The circumstances conspire to put us under them.  The option is to start small, as small as possible. Small enough to work, big enough to put you on the hook. Build something that works.  And then, the challenging task begins: Get someone else to do it too.  END"}
{"prompt": "Finding your voice ###", "completion":"Not your metaphorical voice. I mean your actual voice.  It’s pretty clear to me that our speaking voice is not the result of the inevitable physical evolution of our vocal cords. It’s something our brain figured out how to do with the part of our body that keeps us alive by breathing.  And because it’s a late addition, there are a bunch of kinks in the system.  Talking while breathing is the beginning of the challenge.  But it’s also worth noting that the entire process is in the middle of a huge number of sensitive muscles and nerves. This means that when we’re talking (calling attention to ourselves) we’re also trying to keep all of that stress at bay. Add microphones, Zoom, and the high-stakes world of being seen, and you can start to understand why it’s so easy to get hoarse, to sound like someone you’re not, to develop tics, to amplify your stress, and a whole host of other challenges.  If you don’t sound like you, it might simply be because your brain is sabotaging the thing you’re trying to say. I used to riff about no one gets talker’s block but now I’m not so sure. I think most of us do.  If you’ve experienced any of this, I encourage you to find a good voice coach. Not because you’re some fancy keynote speaker about to go on the TED stage. Simply because you have something to say and it would be nice to be able to say it without pain. It’s easier than ever to have a few sessions remotely, and many people I know have found it life-changing. You can find someone nearby or even watch some videos to get started.  The world needs to hear from you.  END"}
{"prompt": "So many accidents ###", "completion":"The ones we notice are the negative ones. The time we slipped and hurt our knee, or the lingering illness that won’t go away. The gig we didn’t get, or the friend who is afraid or lonely.  But we’re surrounded by positive accidents as well, too many to mention. And often, we forget to mention them.  To be born when and where we were. To have people who give us the benefit of the doubt. To have a chance to read and to speak and to connect. To be surrounded by opportunities that others never even dreamed of.  And then, given those opportunities, the efforts expended and the care extended. The belief we have in others, the smile we offer or the contributions we make. All toward community and possibility.  I heard from two of my oldest friends yesterday, as well as from a dozen new ones. I met each of them accidentally. Every event opens the door for another one.  So many things to be thankful for. Accidents included.  PS anywhere in the world, feel free to check out The Thanksgiving Reader.  END"}
{"prompt": "Books unread ###", "completion":"I was sitting in a friend’s study the other day, and noticed that he had hundreds of books I’d never read.Each was written, perhaps over the course of a year (or a decade), by a smart, passionate person with something to share. All of that focus and insight, generously shared with anyone who wants to take the time.It reminded me of how much is out there, just waiting for us to explore and understand. We have a chance to learn and move forward if we care to.  END"}
{"prompt": "Marketing as a service ###", "completion":"Some folks think of marketing as something that is done to people. A hustle, a hype, a stealing of attention.  We need a name for that, but I don’t think that’s marketing.  On the other hand, calling dinner, cold dead fish on rice, while accurate, doesn’t really help people enjoy their sushi.  Human beings aren’t information processing machines. We’re not hyper-rational or predictable. Instead, we find joy and possibility in stories, in connection and yes, in tension and status roles as well.  When you care enough to see your audience with empathy, you’ll realize that they’re not happier if you simply recite a list of facts. Almost everything we engage with is a placebo at some level, and bringing a human-friendly story to the interaction is a way to serve people.  We need to not only have the ability to imagine what others see, we have to have the guts to go where they are and talk with them on their terms.  This means that we’re willing to be wrong on our way to being useful. We need to make assertions and show up with consistency, making promises and keeping them. Promises not just about the atomic weight of nitrogen, but about experiences and expectations that are sometimes hard to pin down.   Don’t make something that you would buy.  Make something that they would buy.  END"}
{"prompt": "A freelancer’s dilemma ###", "completion":"What do you own?What are you really good at?What do you enjoy?  Engaging with the marketplace requires creating value for people who have a choice.  And deciding what to offer your customers is your choice.  If you own something (a patent, a building, a process, a set of relationships) you can create more value than if you simply start over with new work each time.  If you are really good at something, having amassed skills and a reputation, it’s more likely that you will earn the benefit of the doubt and more easily create value.  And if you focus on being on the hook for work you actually enjoy, your days are better and it’s easier to do great work.  The freelancer’s dilemma is to figure out what to say instead of, you can pick anyone and I’m anyone.  And the entrepreneur’s job is to build enough assets that each transaction gets easier and more profitable.  It begins by being clear about what you own, what you’re good at it and what gives you satisfaction.  END"}
{"prompt": "Aimless clicking ###", "completion":"Wandering around in a digital swamp is a pretty common way to spend an hour these days.Alas, most of us would never consider doing this in a forest. Walking over to a tree because it looked sort of interesting, standing there for a minute, then wandering away. Tree after tree, for hours.The thing is, the digital wandering is mostly a waste. It doesn’t free our imagination, it stifles it. It’s as if this digital version of a tree has making us stressed out as a goal…The next time we consider wasting an afternoon clicking on whatever baits us, perhaps it might make sense going for a walk instead.  END"}
{"prompt": "Don’t waste the good days ###", "completion":"If you’re feeling creative, do the errands tomorrow.  If you’re fit and healthy, take a day to go surfing.  When inspiration strikes, write it down.   The calendar belongs to everyone else. Their schedule isn’t your schedule unless it helps you get where you’re going.  END"}
{"prompt": "Which errors to focus on? ###", "completion":"So many missed opportunities. Decisions not made, errors in judgment, opportunities lost.  Perhaps you didn’t buy Google stock at $80, didn’t buy ETH at $5, didn’t buy that winning lottery ticket… You also didn’t take that course in college, or go out of your way to meet that person on campus or learn Spanish when you had the chance.  But most of the time, those aren’t the things we’re obsessed about. Instead of these huge opportunities not seen, we think about the near misses, the ones we had some sort of proximity to. As if the emotional proximity to a choice is the thing to feel badly about. So, instead of thinking of the $10,000 we didn’t make by buying a certain equity, we think about the $10 we affirmatively lost by leaving it on a counter. Instead of thinking about a breakthrough paper we didn’t write, we worry about a typo we made in a brief years ago.  One is thousands of times more expensive than the other, and the amount of effort in each is the same, but our minds focus on the one where we feel like we had more responsibility. Which causes us to focus even more on the wrong sort of decision in the future.  The roads not seen almost always matter more than the potholes we hit along the way.  END"}
{"prompt": "The two choices for anyone with a new idea ###", "completion":"It’s simple.  It’s complicated.  When you talk to someone about your new idea, they’re going to realize right away that it’s one or the other.  The trap is trying to pitch a complicated cultural shift, possibility or project as if it’s simple.  Darwin’s insight about how the world evolved is simple once you understand it, but it represents such a conceptual leap that bringing it to someone who’s looking for a simple and easy explanation is sure to fail. But if you invite someone along for a journey instead of a quick fix, you earn the right to take your time and tell your story.  Some non-profits are simple, there’s an earthquake, and these people need food right now. Some are complicated, we can create a significant, permanent change in the culture by treating people with dignity so that they can live fuller, more complete lives.  The simple/complex trap often confuses well-meaning people in politics, business and the arts. The solution isn’t to dumb down the complex. The solution is to invite the right people along on the journey.  END"}
{"prompt": "Choice vs. convenience ###", "completion":"You have more than a billion choices online. With just a few clicks, you could be just about anywhere. Thanks for reading this today.  What did you have for lunch yesterday? Of all the lunches in all your possible universes, was it your first choice? Best choice?  When someone tries to take our freedom of choice away, it’s a problem. And yet…  We have far more choices than we realize. In school, we’re bound by the course catalog, the schedule and the requirements of a degree, but even there, we had more freedom than we imagined. The organizations we could have started, the projects we could have launched, the people we could have connected…  It’s convenience that holds us back. And it comes in many forms.  Social convenience: it’s easier to sit through a boring cocktail party or a meeting than it is to tell someone you don’t want to come.  Physical convenience: things that are handy are much more likely to be chosen than ones that require us to move somewhere to go get them.  Intellectual convenience: change makes us uncomfortable. Sunk costs are hard to ignore. Possibility comes with agency, and agency comes with risk.  Financial convenience: if it’s cheaper in the short run, we’re more likely to choose it, even if it costs satisfaction, opportunity or cash in the long run.  Cultural convenience: A combination of all of these, because culture likes the status quo and reminds of this regularly.  If we ever saw precisely how much freedom of choice we have if we were willing to sacrifice convenience for it, we’d be paralyzed. But if the choices we’re making now aren’t helping us live the way we choose, it might be worth taking a hard look at why.  [PS Thanks for reading this on the slowest week of the year. If you’re up for an inconvenient choice, I’ve created a coupon for my Udemy lectures on learning so it only costs half the usual amount for the next few days.  (If you were looking for the free code, alas, your fellow readers grabbed them… I set it at maximum Udemy allows, but they all went quickly.)   Thanks. Here’s to peace of mind and possibility.]  END"}
{"prompt": "Best behavior ###", "completion":"If we’re new to a situation, or feeling unsure, we pay careful attention. We’re closely examining how others feel, what the cultural norms are, and what impact we’re seeking to make.  On the other hand, sometimes we fail to be on our best behavior. That’s another way of describing impulsive selfishness.  The surprising thing isn’t that being on our best behavior makes things go more smoothly. No, for many of us, the surprise is that it actually makes the experience better for us, not just the other folks.  END"}
{"prompt": "Recipes ###", "completion":"One sort of job requires people to follow a recipe.  Another, better sort of job requires people to understand the recipe.  If you understand it, that means you can change it. You have resilience and insight and the leverage to make it better.  END"}
{"prompt": "Lead by leading ###", "completion":"Managers have to wait for permission, because management requires authority.  But in every area of our lives, if we choose to lead, we can lead. Simply by beginning.  It might be that few will choose to follow, but then we can learn to get better at leading.  First we begin.  END"}
{"prompt": "Value capture (and the minibar) ###", "completion":"No one freely buys anything unless it’s worth more than it costs.  And so, in a competitive market, organizations will compete to capture as little value as they can afford to, offering the most surplus to the customer, because that’s how they can grow and thrive.  And monopolies (and organizations that would like to profit as they do) work to create situations where the customer has no real options, so they can capture almost all the value that’s created.  That’s why nuts at the minibar cost so much. The goal is to price them a penny less than they’re worth to the traveler in that moment.  Value creation is a worthwhile goal. Capturing all of that value might not be.  END"}
{"prompt": "What did you expect? ###", "completion":"If you open a roadside motel, expect that tired and demanding budget travelers will arrive.  If you run a fancy restaurant, don’t be surprised if people will angle and cajole and lie to get a ‘better’ table.  If you hustle to get market share, you’ll probably end up with customers who insist on ever more hustle and trickery to stay with you.  If you decide to become a coach, realize that most of your prospects will be people who don’t think they need a coach. (Because the people who want and need a coach already have one).  If you attract new freelance business by being the cheapest, I’m betting that your customers will give you a hard time about your rates.  If you’re a mental health professional, expect that the people you encounter will have issues with their mental health.  Sometimes, things work the way they are supposed to, even if it’s not what we might want in the moment.  END"}
{"prompt": "The problems with churlishness ###", "completion":"Sometimes, people with every advantage act as if they don’t have what they deserve.  They’re ungracious, unkind and even vulgar about it.  The first problem is that it earns them little in the way of sympathy or kindness from people who believe that they ought to be behaving better.  And the second problem is that the person who’s acting churlish knows that they have little reason to take umbrage and that makes it even harder to feel better.  When we feel like a churl, the best path could be to head for gracious humility and kindness instead. It might not work, but it works better than any other option.  END"}
